ruby_programming/advanced_ruby/project_enumerable.md, before:

### Introduction
You should be very familiar with the Enumerable module that gets mixed into the Array and Hash classes (among others) and provides you with lots of handy iterator methods. To prove that there's no magic to it, you're going to rebuild those methods.

### Assignment
<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">

  This project is a great opportunity to get comfortable using `yield` and the `#call` methods. 
  
  For this assignment, you will add your new methods onto the existing Enumerable module. Ruby makes this easy for you because any class or module can be modified by doing something like this:
  
~~~ruby
  module Enumerable
    def my_each
      # your code here
    end
  end
~~~

  For each method, create a script to compare your method to Ruby's enumerable method, such as:
  
~~~ruby
puts "my_each vs. each"
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
numbers.my_each  { |item| puts item }
numbers.each  { |item| puts item }
~~~

1. Create `#my_each`, a method that is identical to `#each` but (obviously) does not use `#each`. You'll need to use a `yield` statement. Make sure it returns the same thing as `#each` as well.
2. Create `#my_each_with_index` in the same way.
3. Create `#my_select` in the same way, though you may use `#my_each` in your definition (but not `#each`).
4. Create `#my_all?` (continue as above)
5. Create `#my_any?`
6. Create `#my_none?`
7. Create `#my_count`
8. Create `#my_map`
9. Create `#my_inject`
10. Test your `#my_inject` by creating a method called `#multiply_els` which multiplies all the elements of the array together by using `#my_inject`, e.g. `multiply_els([2,4,5]) #=> 40`
11. Modify your `#my_map` method to take a proc instead.
12. Modify your `#my_map` method to take either a proc or a block. It won't be necessary to apply both a proc and a block in the same `#my_map` call since you could get the same effect by chaining together one `#my_map` call with the block and one with the proc. This approach is also clearer, since the user doesn't have to remember whether the proc or block will be run first. So if both a proc and a block are given, only execute the proc.

</div>

Commit message:

Feature: Add New Beta Instructions to Custom Enumerables Project
Because:
* @rankoliang has created a new repo for the custom enumerables project where students can check the enumerables they rebuild against tests.
* We want to release this in a beta state to begin with so we can encourage feedback.

ruby_programming/advanced_ruby/project_enumerable.md, after:

### Introduction
You should be very familiar with the Enumerable module that gets mixed into the Array and Hash classes (among others) and provides you with lots of handy iterator methods. To prove that there's no magic to it, you're going to rebuild those methods.

### (Beta) New Assignment
<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">
We have created a new repo where you can rebuild the enumerable methods and check they work as expected by running predefined tests against them.

1. Fork and clone our [custom enumerables repo](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/custom_enumerable_project)
2. Follow the [instructions in the README](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/custom_enumerable_project#installation) to get the repo setup locally
3. Rebuild each of [the methods in this table](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/custom_enumerable_project#methods) and make sure they all pass the tests associated with them.
4. (Optional) Let us know what you think of the new approach to this project in our [Ruby on Rails channel on Discord](https://discord.com/channels/505093832157691914/690591236922409012). We'd love to have your feedback!

</div>

### Old Assignment
<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">

This project is a great opportunity to get comfortable using `yield` and the `#call` methods.

For this assignment, you will add your new methods onto the existing Enumerable module. Ruby makes this easy for you because any class or module can be modified by doing something like this:

~~~ruby
  module Enumerable
    def my_each
      # your code here
    end
  end
~~~

  For each method, create a script to compare your method to Ruby's enumerable method, such as:

~~~ruby
puts "my_each vs. each"
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
numbers.my_each  { |item| puts item }
numbers.each  { |item| puts item }
~~~

1. Create `#my_each`, a method that is identical to `#each` but (obviously) does not use `#each`. You'll need to use a `yield` statement. Make sure it returns the same thing as `#each` as well.
2. Create `#my_each_with_index` in the same way.
3. Create `#my_select` in the same way, though you may use `#my_each` in your definition (but not `#each`).
4. Create `#my_all?` (continue as above)
5. Create `#my_any?`
6. Create `#my_none?`
7. Create `#my_count`
8. Create `#my_map`
9. Create `#my_inject`
10. Test your `#my_inject` by creating a method called `#multiply_els` which multiplies all the elements of the array together by using `#my_inject`, e.g. `multiply_els([2,4,5]) #=> 40`
11. Modify your `#my_map` method to take a proc instead.
12. Modify your `#my_map` method to take either a proc or a block. It won't be necessary to apply both a proc and a block in the same `#my_map` call since you could get the same effect by chaining together one `#my_map` call with the block and one with the proc. This approach is also clearer, since the user doesn't have to remember whether the proc or block will be run first. So if both a proc and a block are given, only execute the proc.

</div>
