Lets use what we've learned and take a chance to continue practicing DOM manipulation - dynamically rendering a simple restaurant homepage!  By the end of it we are going to be using only JavaScript to generate the entire contents of the website!

1. Start the project the same way you began the webpack tutorial project.
   1. run `npm init` in your project directory to generate a `package.json` file
   2. run `npm install --save-dev webpack` to install webpack to the node_modules directory of your project.
   3. Create a `src` and `dist` directory with the following contents:
      1. an `index.js` file in `src`
      2. an `index.html` file in `dist`.  Go ahead and link the `bundle.js` file in a script tag.  `bundle.js` is the file that will be generated by webpack.
   4. create a `webpack.config.js` file that looks just like our file from the tutorial.
2. Set up an HTML skeleton inside of `dist/index.html` with single `<div id="content">`.
3. Inside of `src/index.js` write a simple console.log or alert statement and then run `webpack`.  Load up `dist/index.html` in a browser to make sure everything is working correctly.
4. Create a bare-bones home page for a restaurant. Include an image, headline, and some copy about how wonderful the restaurant is. It’s okay to hard-code these into the HTML for now just to see how they look on the page.
5. Now remove those elements from the HTML (so leave only the `<html>`, `<body>`, and `<div id="content">` tags) and instead create them by using Javascript only, e.g. by appending each new element to the `div#content`once the page is first loaded.  Since we're all set up to write our code in multiple files write this initial page-load function inside of it's own module and then import and call it inside of `index.js`
6. Next, set up your restaurant site to use tabbed browsing to access the Contact and Menu pages. [Look at #7 on this hongkiat post](http://www.hongkiat.com/blog/50-nice-clean-css-tab-based-navigation-scripts/) for visual inspiration. 
   1. Put the contents of each 'tab' inside of it's own module. Each module will export a function that creates a div element, adds the appropriate content and styles to that element and then appends it to the DOM
   2. Write the tab-switching logic inside of `index.js`.  You should have event listeners for each tab that wipes out the current contents and then runs the correct 'tab module' to populate it again.
7. If you are using GitHub pages to host your completed page you need to do a tiny bit more work to get it to show up.  After running `webpack` the full bundled version of your site is available in the `dist` folder, but GH pages is looking for an index.html in the root directory of your project.
   1. Make a new git branch called `gh-pages`.  In that branch simply move the `dist` folder to the root directory.  Feel free to delete the rest of the files on that branch.. all you need is the `index.html` and `bundle.js`.
   2. When you tell GitHub to set up GH pages simply direct it to your `gh-pages` branch instead of master.

## Student Solutions

Send us your solution so we can show others! Submit a link to the Github repo with your files in it by using any of the methods listed on the contributing page.  See the Google Homepage project for examples.

- Add your solution below this line!