ruby/project_linked_lists.md, before:

# Project: Linked Lists

In Computer Science one of the most basic and fundamental data structures is the
linked list, which functions similarly to an array. The principal benefit of a linked
list over a conventional array is that the list elements can easily be inserted or
removed without reallocation of any other elements.

In some programming languages the size of an array is a concern and one of the ways
to overcome that problem and allow dynamically allocated data, which is what linked
lists allow us to do.

Luckily in **Ruby** arrays aren't limited to a certain size, so you don't have to think
about overcoming that limitation.

So if array size is not a limitation in Ruby, are linked lists really necessary?
The short answer to that is *no*; however, it's the simplest of the dynamic data
structures and it will give you a solid foundation, so you can understand more
complex data structures like graphs and binary trees with more ease.

### Structure of a Linked List
A *linked list* is a linear collection of data elements called nodes that "point"
to the next node by means of a pointer.

Each node holds a single element of data and a link or pointer to the next node in the list.

A head node is the first node in the list, a tail node is the last node in the list. Below is a basic representation of a linked list:

`[ NODE(head) ] -> [ NODE ] -> [ NODE(tail) ] -> nil`

 For a more thorough explanation, use these resources:

 1. [Linked Lists in Plain English](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oiW79L8VYXk)
 2. [Linked Lists, Ruby's Missing Data Structure](https://www.sitepoint.com/rubys-missing-data-structure/)
 3. [A more verbose explanation with plenty of diagrams](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~adamchik/15-121/lectures/Linked%20Lists/linked%20lists.html)

## Your Task
You will need two classes:

1. `LinkedList` class, which will represent the full list.
2. `Node` class, containing a `#value` method and a link to the `#next_node`, set both as `nil` by default.


Build the following methods in your linked list class:

1. `#append` adds a new node to the end of the list
2. `#prepend` adds a new node to the start of the list
3. `#size` returns the total number of nodes in the list
4. `#head` returns the first node in the list
5. `#tail` returns the last node in the list
6. `#pop` removes the last element from the list
7. `#contains?` returns true if the passed in value is in the list and otherwise returns false.
8. `#find(data)` returns the index of the node containing data, or nil if not found.
9. `#to_s` represent your LinkedList objects as strings, so you can print them out and preview them in the console.
  The format should be: `( data ) -> ( data ) -> ( data ) -> nil`

#### Extra Credit

1. `#insert_at(index)` that inserts the data after the given index
2. `#remove_at(index)` that removes the node at the given index. (You will need to update the links of your nodes in the list when you remove a node.)

### Student Solutions

*Send us your solution so we can show others! Submit a link to the Github repo with your files in it here using any of the methods listed on the [contributing page](http://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/blob/master/contributing.md).  Please include your partner's github handle somewhere in the description if they would like attribution.*

* [Stefan (Cyprium)'s solution](https://github.com/dev-cyprium/linked-lists-ruby/)
* Add your solution above this line!

Commit message:

added solution... and another item to assignment
Thought it would be useful for a linked list to have an #at command for returning the node at a given index.. makes doing the extra credit much easier.

ruby/project_linked_lists.md, after:

# Project: Linked Lists

In Computer Science one of the most basic and fundamental data structures is the
linked list, which functions similarly to an array. The principal benefit of a linked
list over a conventional array is that the list elements can easily be inserted or
removed without reallocation of any other elements.

In some programming languages the size of an array is a concern and one of the ways
to overcome that problem and allow dynamically allocated data, which is what linked
lists allow us to do.

Luckily in **Ruby** arrays aren't limited to a certain size, so you don't have to think
about overcoming that limitation.

So if array size is not a limitation in Ruby, are linked lists really necessary?
The short answer to that is *no*; however, it's the simplest of the dynamic data
structures and it will give you a solid foundation, so you can understand more
complex data structures like graphs and binary trees with more ease.

### Structure of a Linked List
A *linked list* is a linear collection of data elements called nodes that "point"
to the next node by means of a pointer.

Each node holds a single element of data and a link or pointer to the next node in the list.

A head node is the first node in the list, a tail node is the last node in the list. Below is a basic representation of a linked list:

`[ NODE(head) ] -> [ NODE ] -> [ NODE(tail) ] -> nil`

 For a more thorough explanation, use these resources:

 1. [Linked Lists in Plain English](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oiW79L8VYXk)
 2. [Linked Lists, Ruby's Missing Data Structure](https://www.sitepoint.com/rubys-missing-data-structure/)
 3. [A more verbose explanation with plenty of diagrams](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~adamchik/15-121/lectures/Linked%20Lists/linked%20lists.html)

## Your Task
You will need two classes:

1. `LinkedList` class, which will represent the full list.
2. `Node` class, containing a `#value` method and a link to the `#next_node`, set both as `nil` by default.


Build the following methods in your linked list class:

1. `#append` adds a new node to the end of the list
2. `#prepend` adds a new node to the start of the list
3. `#size` returns the total number of nodes in the list
4. `#head` returns the first node in the list
5. `#tail` returns the last node in the list
6. `#at(index)` returns the node at the given index
7. `#pop` removes the last element from the list
8. `#contains?` returns true if the passed in value is in the list and otherwise returns false.
9. `#find(data)` returns the index of the node containing data, or nil if not found.
10. `#to_s` represent your LinkedList objects as strings, so you can print them out and preview them in the console.
  The format should be: `( data ) -> ( data ) -> ( data ) -> nil`

#### Extra Credit

1. `#insert_at(index)` that inserts the data after the given index
2. `#remove_at(index)` that removes the node at the given index. (You will need to update the links of your nodes in the list when you remove a node.)

### Student Solutions

*Send us your solution so we can show others! Submit a link to the Github repo with your files in it here using any of the methods listed on the [contributing page](http://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/blob/master/contributing.md).  Please include your partner's github handle somewhere in the description if they would like attribution.*

* [Stefan (Cyprium)'s solution](https://github.com/dev-cyprium/linked-lists-ruby/)
* [Cody Loyd's solution](https://github.com/codyloyd/linked_list)
* Add your solution above this line!
