.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

<!--
Thank you for taking the time to contribute to The Odin Project. In order to get PRs closed in a reasonable amount of time, we request that you include a baseline of information about the changes you are proposing. Please complete each applicable checkbox and answer the following triage questions:
-->

 - [ ] You have read [The Odin Projects Contributing Guide](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).
 - [ ] The title summarizes the change and where it happened, for example: "Fixes punctuation in Clean Code lesson".
 - [ ] If the PR is related to an open issue, use a [relevant keyword](https://docs.github.com/en/github/writing-on-github/working-with-advanced-formatting/using-keywords-in-issues-and-pull-requests) and reference it with the `#` sign and the issue number.
 - [ ] If changes are requested, please make the changes in a timely manner. After you submit the changes, request another review from the maintainer (top right).

#### 1. Describe the changes made and include why they are necessary or important:

...your text here

#### 2. Related Issue

Closes #XXXXX

Commit message:

Add checkbox for reviewing markdown
The PR template should include a checkbox to say the person should have reviewed their markdown with the tool provided.

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!--
Thank you for taking the time to contribute to The Odin Project. In order to get PRs closed in a reasonable amount of time, we request that you include a baseline of information about the changes you are proposing. Please complete each applicable checkbox and answer the following triage questions:
-->

 - [ ] You have read [The Odin Projects Contributing Guide](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).
 - [ ] The title summarizes the change and where it happened, for example: "Fixes punctuation in Clean Code lesson".
 - [ ] If the PR is related to an open issue, use a [relevant keyword](https://docs.github.com/en/github/writing-on-github/working-with-advanced-formatting/using-keywords-in-issues-and-pull-requests) and reference it with the `#` sign and the issue number.
 - [ ] You have previewed your markdown in the [Odin Markdown Preview Tool](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/preview)
 - [ ] If changes are requested, please make the changes in a timely manner. After you submit the changes, request another review from the maintainer (top right).

#### 1. Describe the changes made and include why they are necessary or important:

...your text here

#### 2. Related Issue

Closes #XXXXX
