README.md, before:

# The Odin Project Curriculum: [Learn Web Development for Free](http://theodinproject.com)

This repository houses the curriculum used by [The Odin Project](http://theodinproject.com).  It is available for free to anyone who would like to learn web development in a project-focused and collaborative environment.\*  

**See it live at [www.theodinproject.com/courses](http://www.theodinproject.com/courses).**

Students, educators, and developers are encouraged to make contributions to the curriculum.  It has been greatly simplified so that it should be a rather straightforward process -- just fork this repository, make your changes (e.g. adding the link to your solution for one of the exercises), then submit a pull request.  The lessons presented at [theodinproject.com/curriculum](http://theodinproject.com/curriculum) are all stored in their appropriate course directories here.

Please take a look at the [contributing page](http://www.theodinproject.com/contributing) to find out more about the contributing workflow

##What to contribute

### 1. Student Solutions

If you've finished a project, submit the link to your solution's github repo where it says to do so in the project description.  See the section "Project Solutions" below.

### 2. Other Content

We link out to all kinds of free pre-existing videos, blogs and tutorials.  If we're trying to teach something and you know there's a better resource out there, put it in the "Additional Resources" section of that lesson.  Same goes for alternate but useful explanations of the material.  If you've got high quality material on your own blog or website, feel free to do the same.  Content with an obvious commercial angle (like marketing videos) should only be used if there is no reasonable substitute.

### 3. Exercises and Projects

This is a project-driven curriculum so having useful and interesting projects that break down to address specific content modules is crucial.  We're always on the lookout for good project ideas that can be broken down into a checklist of deliverables. If you can help on any of those levels, please contribute!

We will also be instituting quizzes at the beginning and end of most lessons.  If you know of or have created any interesting problems that address a particular area of content, please send them or the links to them this way!

### 4. Curriculum Strategy

This curriculum is built to pave the way between new students and industry.  If you're a developer or hiring manager and have a strong opinion about something you believe junior devs are lacking these days and should be included in the curriculum, let us know by opening an issue  If you're a student and have gone through a unit and still don't feel like you understand something well enough, tell us so we can beef up that section!

## HOW to Contribute

There are two main ways to contribute to the curriculum:

1. **Edit on Github** For small changes like adding links to student solutions or fixing typos, it's easiest to just edit the file directly on Github, which [I show how to do in this YouTube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V74l_zS1x8E).

1. **Pull Request:**  To contribute in ways that are larger than what can be done directly on Github or if you're expecting to make several contributions over time, it is best to submit a Pull Request.  I describe that workflow [in this YouTube video here](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mENDYhfxH-o) and Github has good documentation and video support as well.  Basically, you will [fork the curriculum repository](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo), make your changes or additions to the appropriate file, then [submit a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests) with your changes.  

##Other helpful links

*For more information about The Odin Project, go to [theodinproject.com](http://theodinproject.com).*

*For the source code to The Odin Project's main website (which pulls in this curriculum), check out the [github repo here](http://github.com/theodinproject/theodinproject).*

**Happy Coding!**

\* See [license.md](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/blob/master/license.md) for usage details.

<hr>
Created by [Erik Trautman](http://www.github.com/eriktrautman)

Commit message:

revamped the contributing guide and Readme

README.md, after:

# Welcome to The Odin Project Curriculum: [Learn Web Development for Free](http://theodinproject.com)

The Odin Project is a open source community and curriculum for learning what you need to know to be hireable as a web developer. The curriculum consists of the best curated resources for learning web development on the web. We also have lots of original content throughout the courses and lessons. Each course has multiple projects that allow the students to practice what they have been learning and to use in their portfolio.

This repository houses the curriculum content used by [The Odin Project](http://theodinproject.com) website.

[These are the courses](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3A%22course%20overview%22%20) we are developing at the moment. Please feel free to comment on any of them with your suggestions of what topics we should cover, any resources you think we should include, any project ideas you think would be a good fit or any feedback in general. Every little helps in making the curriculum better.

On a more granular level, [these are the lessons](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3A%22lesson%22%20) we are currently developing for the courses. Please feel free to comment on any of them with any suggestions and ideas you have. If you would like to help us develop any of these lessons please read our [contributing guide](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/wiki/Contributing-Guide) to find out how you can contribute.

The Odin project community can be found on our [gitter chat rooms](https://gitter.im/TheOdinProject/theodinproject)

## Contributing
The Odin Project depends on open source contributions to improve, grow and thrive. We need help from contributors of all kinds of experience levels and backgrounds to maintain and make Odin more awesome.

A non exhaustive list of what you can contribute to help us:
* Typo and grammar corrections.
* Rewriting lesson sections to make them clearer and easier to understand.
* Fixes for broken links.
* New resource links you think would make a lesson better
* Working on new lessons and projects, you can can choose to work on parts of a lesson which are outlined in the progress list on [lesson plans] or you can work on completing an entire lesson yourself.

To find out more about how you can contribute please read our [contributing guide](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/wiki/Contributing-Guide)

##Other helpful links

*For more information about The Odin Project, go to [theodinproject.com](http://theodinproject.com).*

*For the source code to The Odin Project's main website (which pulls in this curriculum), check out the [github repo here](http://github.com/theodinproject/theodinproject).*

**Happy Coding!**

\* See [license.md](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/blob/master/license.md) for usage details.

<hr>
Created by [Erik Trautman](http://www.github.com/eriktrautman)
