foundations/git_basics/introduction_to_git.md, before:

### Introduction

Git is like a really **epic save button** for your files and directories. Officially, Git is a version control system.

<span id="text-editor-and-git"></span>A *save* in a text editor records all of the words in a document as a single file. You are only ever given one record of the file, such as `essay.doc`, unless you make duplicate copies (which is difficult to remember to do and keep track of):

`essay-draft1.doc`, `essay-draft2.doc`, `essay-final.doc`

However, a *save* in Git records differences in the files and folders AND keeps a **historical record of each save**. This feature is a game changer. As an individual developer, Git enables you to review how your project grows and to easily look at or restore file states from the past. Once connected to a network, Git allows you to push your project to GitHub for sharing and collaborating with other developers.

<span id="git-local"></span>While Git works on your *local* machine, <span id="github-remote"></span>GitHub is a *remote* storage facility on the web for all your coding projects. This means that by learning Git, you will get to showcase your portfolio on GitHub! This is really important because almost all software development companies consider using Git to be an **essential skill** for modern web developers. Having a GitHub portfolio will provide proof to future potential employers as to what you are capable of.

In this lesson, we will briefly explore the history of Git, what it is, and what it's useful for.

In the next lesson, we will go over the basic workflow for using Git, which should enhance your understanding and demonstrate why Git is so useful.

Finally, you will set up a project with Git that will serve as a template for your future projects.

For now, let's learn what Git is and why it's so powerful!

### Learning Outcomes:
By the end of this lesson, you should be able to do the following:

 - Explain what Git and GitHub are and the differences between the two.
 - Describe the differences between Git and a text editor in terms of what they save and their record keeping.
 - Describe why Git is useful for an individual developer and a team of developers.

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">

  1. Read Chapter 1.1 through 1.4 in [this book about version control](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-About-Version-Control) to learn the differences between local, centralized, and distributed version control systems.
  2. Watch [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8oRjP8yj2Wo) about how Git can improve the workflow of both an individual and a team of developers.
  3. Watch [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1h9_cB9mPT8&feature=youtu.be&t=13s) for some history on Git and GitHub, and make sure you know the difference between the two. Git is a technology used in the command line while GitHub is a [website](https://github.com/) you can visit.
  4. If you haven't yet installed Git, visit the [Setting Up Git](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/foundations/lessons/setting-up-git) lesson.
  5. Take a look at The Odin Project's very own [GitHub repository](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum). This is where all the lessons are stored! While you're there, look at all our [contributors](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/graphs/contributors) to gain an appreciation for how Git records all collaborative efforts and how GitHub visually represents this.
</div>

### Additional Resources
This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental.

* [Git and GitHub in plain English](https://blog.red-badger.com/blog/2016/11/29/gitgithub-in-plain-english)

### Knowledge Check
This section contains questions for you to check your understanding of this lesson. If you’re having trouble answering the questions below on your own, review the material above to find the answer.

* <a  class="knowledge-check-link" href="#introduction">What kind of program is Git?</a>
* <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="#text-editor-and-git">What are the differences between Git and a text editor in terms of what they save and their record keeping?</a>
* <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="#git-local">Does Git work at a local or remote level?</a>
* <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="#github-remote">Does GitHub work at a local or remote level?</a>
* <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8oRjP8yj2Wo">Why is Git useful for an individual developer?</a>
* <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8oRjP8yj2Wo">Why are Git and GitHub useful for a team of developers?</a>

Commit message:

Inform reader of alternate repo hosting platforms
Started from this message -> https://discord.com/channels/505093832157691914/540903304046182425/929791474143490099

Yes - You have read The Odin Projects Contributing Guide.
Yes - The title summarizes the change and where it happened, for example: "Fixes punctuation in Clean Code lesson".
No - If the PR is related to an open issue, use a relevant keyword and reference it with the # sign and the issue number.
Yes - You have previewed your markdown (if any) in the Odin Markdown Preview Tool

If changes are requested, please make the changes in a timely manner. After you submit the changes, request another review from the maintainer (top right).

1. Describe the changes made and include why they are necessary or important:
    Added alternative platforms to inform the reader of different options, than just GitHub.

Goal of this is to inform the reader of different options available, than the current one stated in the lesson.
Given we are showing alternatives, it also states the support platform for the curriculum.

2. Related Issue
N/A

foundations/git_basics/introduction_to_git.md, after:

### Introduction

Git is like a really **epic save button** for your files and directories. Officially, Git is a version control system.

<span id="text-editor-and-git"></span>A *save* in a text editor records all of the words in a document as a single file. You are only ever given one record of the file, such as `essay.doc`, unless you make duplicate copies (which is difficult to remember to do and keep track of):

`essay-draft1.doc`, `essay-draft2.doc`, `essay-final.doc`

However, a *save* in Git records differences in the files and folders AND keeps a **historical record of each save**. This feature is a game changer. As an individual developer, Git enables you to review how your project grows and to easily look at or restore file states from the past. Once connected to a network, Git allows you to push your project to GitHub or other alternatives such as: Bitbucket, Beanstalk, or GitLab for sharing and collaborating with other developers. 

Please note, we only **support** GitHub within our curriculum, and will not help troubleshoot the alternatives.

<span id="git-local"></span>While Git works on your *local* machine, <span id="github-remote"></span>GitHub is a *remote* storage facility on the web for all your coding projects. This means that by learning Git, you will get to showcase your portfolio on GitHub! This is really important because almost all software development companies consider using Git to be an **essential skill** for modern web developers. Having a GitHub portfolio will provide proof to future potential employers as to what you are capable of.

In this lesson, we will briefly explore the history of Git, what it is, and what it's useful for.

In the next lesson, we will go over the basic workflow for using Git, which should enhance your understanding and demonstrate why Git is so useful.

Finally, you will set up a project with Git that will serve as a template for your future projects.

For now, let's learn what Git is and why it's so powerful!

### Learning Outcomes:
By the end of this lesson, you should be able to do the following:

 - Explain what Git and GitHub are and the differences between the two.
 - Describe the differences between Git and a text editor in terms of what they save and their record keeping.
 - Describe why Git is useful for an individual developer and a team of developers.

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">

  1. Read Chapter 1.1 through 1.4 in [this book about version control](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-About-Version-Control) to learn the differences between local, centralized, and distributed version control systems.
  2. Watch [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8oRjP8yj2Wo) about how Git can improve the workflow of both an individual and a team of developers.
  3. Watch [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1h9_cB9mPT8&feature=youtu.be&t=13s) for some history on Git and GitHub, and make sure you know the difference between the two. Git is a technology used in the command line while GitHub is a [website](https://github.com/) you can visit.
  4. If you haven't yet installed Git, visit the [Setting Up Git](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/foundations/lessons/setting-up-git) lesson.
  5. Take a look at The Odin Project's very own [GitHub repository](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum). This is where all the lessons are stored! While you're there, look at all our [contributors](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/graphs/contributors) to gain an appreciation for how Git records all collaborative efforts and how GitHub visually represents this.
</div>

### Additional Resources
This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental.

* [Git and GitHub in plain English](https://blog.red-badger.com/blog/2016/11/29/gitgithub-in-plain-english)

### Knowledge Check
This section contains questions for you to check your understanding of this lesson. If you’re having trouble answering the questions below on your own, review the material above to find the answer.

* <a  class="knowledge-check-link" href="#introduction">What kind of program is Git?</a>
* <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="#text-editor-and-git">What are the differences between Git and a text editor in terms of what they save and their record keeping?</a>
* <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="#git-local">Does Git work at a local or remote level?</a>
* <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="#github-remote">Does GitHub work at a local or remote level?</a>
* <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8oRjP8yj2Wo">Why is Git useful for an individual developer?</a>
* <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8oRjP8yj2Wo">Why are Git and GitHub useful for a team of developers?</a>
