foundations/html_css/the-box-model/the-box-model.md, before:

### Introduction

Now that you understand the basic syntax of HTML and CSS, we're going to get serious. The most important skills you need to master with CSS are _positioning_ and _layout_. Changing fonts and colors is a crucial skill, but being able to put things exactly where you want them on a webpage is even more crucial. After all, how many webpages can you find where absolutely every element is just stacked one on top of another?

### Learning Outcomes

- You'll learn all about _the box model_.
- You'll learn how to make sure elements are just the right size with `margin`, `padding`, and `borders`

Learning to position elements on a webpage is not that difficult once you understand just a few key concepts. Unfortunately many learners race through learning HTML and CSS to get to JavaScript, and end up missing these fundamental concepts. This leads to frustration, pain ([and funny gifs](https://giphy.com/gifs/css-13FrpeVH09Zrb2)), because all of the JavaScript skills in the world are meaningless if you can't stick your elements on the page where you need them to be. So with that in mind, let's get started.

### The Box Model

The first important concept that you need to understand to be successful in CSS is the box model. It isn't complicated, but skipping over it now will cause you much frustration down the line.

Basically, every single thing on a webpage is a rectangular box. These boxes can have other boxes in them and can sit alongside one another. You can get a rough idea of how this works by sticking a border on every item on the page like this:

~~~css
* {
  border: 2px solid red;
}
~~~

![boxes](https://cdn.statically.io/gh/TheOdinProject/curriculum/main/foundations/html_css/the-box-model/imgs/boxes.png)

You can use the browser's inspector to add the CSS above to this web page if you want. Boxes in boxes!

![lines](https://cdn.statically.io/gh/TheOdinProject/curriculum/main/foundations/html_css/the-box-model/imgs/odin-lined.png)

OK, so there might be some circles in the above image... but when it comes to layout, they fit together like rectangular boxes and not circles. In the end, laying out a webpage and positioning all of its elements is basically just deciding how you are going to nest and stack these boxes.

The only real complication here is that there are multiple ways to manipulate the size of these boxes, and the space between them, using `margin`, `padding`, and `border`. The assigned articles go into more depth on this concept, but to sum it up briefly: padding increases the space between the edge of a box and the content inside of it; margin increases the space between a box and any others that sit next to it; and border adds space (even if it's only a pixel or two) between the margin and the padding. Be sure to study the diagrams carefully.

![the box model](https://cdn.statically.io/gh/TheOdinProject/curriculum/main/foundations/html_css/the-box-model/imgs/box-model.png)

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">
1. [This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rIO5326FgPE) is a straightforward overview of the box model, padding and margin. Go ahead and watch this now; it informs everything else.
2. Because the box model concept is so incredibly fundamental, check out [this lesson from MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model). It covers the same material as the video above, but it goes a little further in depth. Pay close attention to the examples and take the time to experiment with their in-browser editor!
3. [This CSS Tricks page](https://css-tricks.com/almanac/properties/m/margin/) has some further information about the `margin` property that you'll find useful. Specifically, the sections about `auto` and margin collapsing contain things you'll want to know.
</div>

### Additional Resources
This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental.

### Knowledge Check
This section contains questions for you to check your understanding of this lesson. If you’re having trouble answering the questions below on your own, review the material above to find the answer.

- <a class='knowledge-check-link' href='#the-box-model'>From inside to outside, what is the order of box-model properties?</a>
- <a class='knowledge-check-link' href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model#the_alternative_css_box_model'>What does the `box-sizing` CSS property do?</a>
- <a class='knowledge-check-link' href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model#the_alternative_css_box_model'>What is the difference between the standard and alternative box model?</a>
- <a class='knowledge-check-link' href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model#margins_padding_and_borders'>Would you use `margin` or `padding` to create more space between 2 elements?</a>
- <a class='knowledge-check-link' href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model#margins_padding_and_borders'>Would you use `margin` or `padding` to create more space between the contents of an element and its border?</a>
- <a class='knowledge-check-link' href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model#margins_padding_and_borders'>Would you use `margin` or `padding` if you wanted two elements to overlap each other?</a>

Commit message:

Added minor text to "Additional Resources" Section
Added "It looks like this lesson doesn't have any additional resources yet. Help us expand this section by contributing to our curriculum." to maintain consistency with previous lessons in which no additional resources were offered.

foundations/html_css/the-box-model/the-box-model.md, after:

### Introduction

Now that you understand the basic syntax of HTML and CSS, we're going to get serious. The most important skills you need to master with CSS are _positioning_ and _layout_. Changing fonts and colors is a crucial skill, but being able to put things exactly where you want them on a webpage is even more crucial. After all, how many webpages can you find where absolutely every element is just stacked one on top of another?

### Learning Outcomes

- You'll learn all about _the box model_.
- You'll learn how to make sure elements are just the right size with `margin`, `padding`, and `borders`

Learning to position elements on a webpage is not that difficult once you understand just a few key concepts. Unfortunately many learners race through learning HTML and CSS to get to JavaScript, and end up missing these fundamental concepts. This leads to frustration, pain ([and funny gifs](https://giphy.com/gifs/css-13FrpeVH09Zrb2)), because all of the JavaScript skills in the world are meaningless if you can't stick your elements on the page where you need them to be. So with that in mind, let's get started.

### The Box Model

The first important concept that you need to understand to be successful in CSS is the box model. It isn't complicated, but skipping over it now will cause you much frustration down the line.

Basically, every single thing on a webpage is a rectangular box. These boxes can have other boxes in them and can sit alongside one another. You can get a rough idea of how this works by sticking a border on every item on the page like this:

~~~css
* {
  border: 2px solid red;
}
~~~

![boxes](https://cdn.statically.io/gh/TheOdinProject/curriculum/main/foundations/html_css/the-box-model/imgs/boxes.png)

You can use the browser's inspector to add the CSS above to this web page if you want. Boxes in boxes!

![lines](https://cdn.statically.io/gh/TheOdinProject/curriculum/main/foundations/html_css/the-box-model/imgs/odin-lined.png)

OK, so there might be some circles in the above image... but when it comes to layout, they fit together like rectangular boxes and not circles. In the end, laying out a webpage and positioning all of its elements is basically just deciding how you are going to nest and stack these boxes.

The only real complication here is that there are multiple ways to manipulate the size of these boxes, and the space between them, using `margin`, `padding`, and `border`. The assigned articles go into more depth on this concept, but to sum it up briefly: padding increases the space between the edge of a box and the content inside of it; margin increases the space between a box and any others that sit next to it; and border adds space (even if it's only a pixel or two) between the margin and the padding. Be sure to study the diagrams carefully.

![the box model](https://cdn.statically.io/gh/TheOdinProject/curriculum/main/foundations/html_css/the-box-model/imgs/box-model.png)

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">
1. [This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rIO5326FgPE) is a straightforward overview of the box model, padding and margin. Go ahead and watch this now; it informs everything else.
2. Because the box model concept is so incredibly fundamental, check out [this lesson from MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model). It covers the same material as the video above, but it goes a little further in depth. Pay close attention to the examples and take the time to experiment with their in-browser editor!
3. [This CSS Tricks page](https://css-tricks.com/almanac/properties/m/margin/) has some further information about the `margin` property that you'll find useful. Specifically, the sections about `auto` and margin collapsing contain things you'll want to know.
</div>

### Additional Resources
This section contains helpful links to related content. It isn’t required, so consider it supplemental.

*   It looks like this lesson doesn't have any additional resources yet. Help us expand this section by contributing to our curriculum.

### Knowledge Check
This section contains questions for you to check your understanding of this lesson. If you’re having trouble answering the questions below on your own, review the material above to find the answer.

- <a class='knowledge-check-link' href='#the-box-model'>From inside to outside, what is the order of box-model properties?</a>
- <a class='knowledge-check-link' href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model#the_alternative_css_box_model'>What does the `box-sizing` CSS property do?</a>
- <a class='knowledge-check-link' href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model#the_alternative_css_box_model'>What is the difference between the standard and alternative box model?</a>
- <a class='knowledge-check-link' href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model#margins_padding_and_borders'>Would you use `margin` or `padding` to create more space between 2 elements?</a>
- <a class='knowledge-check-link' href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model#margins_padding_and_borders'>Would you use `margin` or `padding` to create more space between the contents of an element and its border?</a>
- <a class='knowledge-check-link' href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model#margins_padding_and_borders'>Would you use `margin` or `padding` if you wanted two elements to overlap each other?</a>
