# `TOP011` - Note box headings

Tags: `headings`

Aliases: `note-box-headings`

This rule is triggered when a [note box](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/blob/main/LAYOUT_STYLE_GUIDE.md#note-boxes) does not open with a level 4 heading and/or the heading text does not start with appropriate note box type (as described in the layout style guide).

```markdown
<div class="lesson-note" markdown="1">

This note box does not have a heading, so will flag a TOP011 error.

</div>
```

```markdown
<div class="lesson-note lesson-note--warning" markdown="1">

#### Heading not starting with "Warning:"

Note box contents.

</div>
```

The warning box above does open with a level 4 heading but the heading text does not start with `Warning:`. To resolve this error, the heading text can be changed to:

```markdown
#### Warning: Heading now starting with "Warning:"
```

A TOP011 error will also be thrown if the note box heading is not level 4:

```markdown
<div class="lesson-note" markdown="1">

### Note: Non-level 4 note box heading: Will flag a TOP011 error as it should be level 4

Note box contents.

</div>
```

This can be resolved by changing the note box heading to a level 4 heading:

```markdown
<div class="lesson-note" markdown="1">

#### Note: Level 4 note box heading: Correct and will not flag a TOP011 error

Note box contents.

</div>
```

Incorrect heading level errors are fixable with our `fix:*` npm scripts, which will convert the heading to be level 4. Missing heading errors and note box type errors are not fixable via our `fix:*` scripts, so must be manually addressed.

## Rationale

Our lesson headings are linkable via ID fragments. By enforcing headings for note boxes, they can be better summarised at a glance while always being linkable to.

While different note box types are distinguishable via border colors and icons, this may not be sufficiently accessible for some people with visual deficiencies. It is more accessible to convey the note box type through the heading text itself.

Consistent use of heading levels for note boxes also looks better on the website. Since note boxes are not main sections themselves, they should not use level 3 headings. The website also uses specific CSS for when note box headings are hovered over. Having non-level 4 headings in these note boxes causes behaviour inconsistent with what we expect.
