javascript/javascript_apis.md, before:

# Working with Javascript APIs

There are a whole lot of external APIs that you can access using simple Javascript, adding rich content or interesting functionality to your webpages. A few examples include embedding Google Maps in your page or downloading Flickr images.  

To work with an API, you will usually need to register your application with the API provider (and get an API key to identify yourself with when making a request).  After that initial setup, most access is often free.

## Your Assignment

1. Do the Codecademy track about [learning to use APIs with Javascript for accessing YouTube](http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/youtube).
2. Look at the [Google Maps API Tutorial from W3 Schools](http://www.w3schools.com/googleAPI/default.asp), though consider implementing it optional.

## Additional Resources

*This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something*

* [Codecademy's API Track](https://www.codecademy.com/apis)
* [Using Apigee as a back end for your website](http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/apigee)
* [Embed Google Maps in your site using this jQuery plugin called GoMap](http://www.pittss.lv/jquery/gomap/).  The site has lots of links to example code for implementing different functionality.
* [Designing Better Javascript APIs from Smashing Magazine](http://coding.smashingmagazine.com/2012/10/09/designing-javascript-apis-usability/) is great if you're considering creating your own Javascript APIs and Tools, or if you just want to see life from the perspective of the creators of great tools like jQuery.

Commit message:

Add Google Maps APIs course to Assigments.
I think this is an excellent free course and a great follow up to CodeCademy track. Codecademy lays out the basics, but lacks real world application since its all in the browser. 

Udacity course is much more real-world-like and goes from creating Google Developer Project, getting an API key, to using it in a few small projects (placing markers on the map, infowindows and drawing polygons). Every section begins with youtube video that explains the new problem.

javascript/javascript_apis.md, after:

# Working with Javascript APIs

There are a whole lot of external APIs that you can access using simple Javascript, adding rich content or interesting functionality to your webpages. A few examples include embedding Google Maps in your page or downloading Flickr images.  

To work with an API, you will usually need to register your application with the API provider (and get an API key to identify yourself with when making a request).  After that initial setup, most access is often free.

## Your Assignment

1. Do the Codecademy track about [learning to use APIs with Javascript for accessing YouTube](http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/youtube).
2. Look at the [Google Maps API Tutorial from W3 Schools](http://www.w3schools.com/googleAPI/default.asp), though consider implementing it optional.
3. Finish the first part of Udacity [Google Maps APIs](https://www.udacity.com/course/google-maps-apis--ud864) course to get better understanding of real world application of working with APIs.


## Additional Resources

*This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something*

* [Codecademy's API Track](https://www.codecademy.com/apis)
* [Using Apigee as a back end for your website](http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/apigee)
* [Embed Google Maps in your site using this jQuery plugin called GoMap](http://www.pittss.lv/jquery/gomap/).  The site has lots of links to example code for implementing different functionality.
* [Designing Better Javascript APIs from Smashing Magazine](http://coding.smashingmagazine.com/2012/10/09/designing-javascript-apis-usability/) is great if you're considering creating your own Javascript APIs and Tools, or if you just want to see life from the perspective of the creators of great tools like jQuery.
