In the previous lessons you learned how to use Node.js to get up and running, serve up a multi-page website and read and write data from files on the server... and you probably found that while it wasn't too difficult, the code was verbose and a little complicated.  As you can probably imagine, maintaining a large webapp written in plain Node like that could get tricky as you add more and more features or pages. [Express](https://expressjs.com/)) is a tiny and simple framework that makes the things you did in the previous lessons even quicker and simpler, and does so in a way that makes projects even more easily extensible.

In this unit we are going to lean heavily on the [express tutorial](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Express_Nodejs) on MDN.  There is a *ton* of information here, so be sure to take your time and READ EVERYTHING.  The yellow "notes" that are scattered throughout the tutorial often link to articles or other tutorials that will definitely improve your understanding of the content. Don't be lazy!

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">

1. Read the [introductory lesson](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Express_Nodejs/Introduction) on the MDN website.  It is pretty long... it's main purpose is to show you the various bits and pieces that you'll be learning in the rest of the tutorial.  If you want you can code along a bit, but most of the examples aren't really intended for you to follow 100%.
*DO* read the entire thing!  Some of it will be review, but that's OK! Follow the links that they give and at least look at them.  For the most part in the links in this lesson will take you to the relevant portion of the official express docs (which are quite good!) You'll want to be somewhat familiar with them when it comes time to do your own projects.
2. If you've gotten this far, you should already have node and npm set up and running smoothly.. the second lesson on MDN's website walks you through setting that up and then goes on to talk about a couple ways to install and get started with Express. Read the [second half](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Express_Nodejs/development_environment) of that article.
3. Once you're all set up, take a look at the simple Node site you created in our first project. Rewrite it using express (feel free to use the express-generator, though it's almost certainly overkill for this little project).  You may have to do a little experimenting to get it working exactly right, but that's how you learn.  Good luck!
</div>
