extra_stuff/lessons_in_progress/git_intro.md, before:

# Git 101
Git is a distributed version control system that allows developers to take snap shots of the state of their projects over time. One of the problems it solves is having to make different versions of files for different changes. for example you may have done this with files in the past when making changes:

`cv-draft.doc`, `cv-experimental.doc`, `cv-final.doc`

with git you would simply make another separate branch where you can safely make changes. More on branches later.

Git will be the tool you will use to upload your portfolio of code to Github so that future potential employers can see what you can do when your looking for a development job.

On the topic of jobs, almost all software development companies will list Git as one of the required skills in their job specs.
All of this makes Git an essential skill for a modern web developer.  

 In this lesson we will briefly explore the history of Git, what it is and what it's useful for.


## Learning Outcomes

*By the end of this lesson you should understand the following*

* What is Git?
* Why is Git useful for a developer?
* Why is Git useful for a team of developers?
* What is the different between Git and github?

## Assignment:

1. [A short history of git and GitHub](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1h9_cB9mPT8)
2. [what is git](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8oRjP8yj2Wo)
2. [what is git and github](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uUuTYDg9XoI)
3. [why use git](https://www.git-tower.com/learn/git/ebook/en/command-line/basics/why-use-version-control)
4. [difference between git and github](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xKVlZ3wFVKA)


## Conclusion
You should now have high level understanding of what git is and what it's used for. Don't worry if Git doesn't make complete sense to you right now or if you're questioning why you would need to use it. In the next lesson we will go over the basic workflow of using Git on a small project, which should enhance your understanding and demonstrate why its so useful.   

## Additional Resources

*This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something*

* No more than 3 extra resources, we want to keep the links to a minimum on lesson pages now.

Commit message:

Add more flow to the introduction
Start with the core principle of what git does for a beginner: a really epic
save button.

Isolate material related to terminal commands - to be moved to git basics.

Remove redundant statements.

extra_stuff/lessons_in_progress/git_intro.md, after:

# Git 101
Git is like a really **epic save button** for your files and directories - officially git is called a version control system. <!--took out "distributed" as not a core part of understanding it for someone never exposed to VCS -->

To compare, a *save* in a text editor would record all of the words of a document as a single file. You are only ever given one record of the file like `essay.doc` unless you make duplicate copies (which would be difficult to remember to do and keep track of):

`essay-draft1.doc`, `essay-draft2.doc`, `essay-final.doc`

A *save* in git however, would record differences of files and folders AND keep a **historical record of each save**. This feature is a game changer. As an individual developer, git enables you to review how your project grows and to easily look at or restore file states from the past. Once connected to a network, git allows you to push your project to GitHub for sharing and collaborating with other developers.

While git works on your *local* machine, GitHub is a *remote* storage facility on the web for all your coding projects. This means that by learning git, you will get to showcase your portfolio on GitHub! This is really important because almost all software development companies consider the ability to use git as an **essential skill for a modern web developer** to have; having a portfolio will provide proof to future potential employers as to what you are capable of.

In this lesson we will briefly explore the history of Git, what it is and what it's useful for.

In the next lesson we will go over the basic workflow of using Git on a small project, which should enhance your understanding and demonstrate whygit is so useful. 


## Learning Outcome:
*By the end of this lesson you should be able to:*
* Define what kind of program git is
* Describe the differences between git and a text editor in terms of what they save and their record keeping
* Describe whether git and GitHub are work at a local or remote level
* Describe why git is useful for an individual developer and a team of developers


<!-- Things to move to the next lesson -->
A *save* in git is divided into two terminal commands: **add** and **commit**. This gives you control of exactly what you want to be remembered in your snapshot. Think of `add` as adjusting the number of people or elements to be included in your photo, while `commit` is actually taking the photo, resulting in a snapshot.

with git you would simply make another separate branch where you can safely make changes. More on branches later.
<!-- ^^^Things to move to git basics lesson^^^ -->


## Assignment:

1. [A short history of git and GitHub](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1h9_cB9mPT8)
2. [what is git](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8oRjP8yj2Wo)
3. [what is git and github](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uUuTYDg9XoI)
4. [why use git](https://www.git-tower.com/learn/git/ebook/en/command-line/basics/why-use-version-control)
5. [difference between git and github](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xKVlZ3wFVKA)


## Conclusion
TO BE FILLED
<!--The purpose of this lesson is to represent a high level overview of git - if it did then we don't need to mention the lesson was a high level overview; if it wasn't, then we need to rethink the lesson -->

## Additional Resources

*This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something*

* No more than 3 extra resources, we want to keep the links to a minimum on lesson pages now.
