web_development_101/backbone_basics.md, before:

# Backbone.js 101
<!-- *Estimated Time: 1 hr* -->
<!-- This lesson can be deleted, it adds no value to this part of the course and will only serve to confuse students who have only scratched the surfice of rails -->

You thought only server-side languages could utilize frameworks?  Think again.  More and more heavy lifting is being done in the browser these days and that means lots of repetitive and disorganized code to tidy up (and Javascript can get awfully disorganized).  

While there are many popular Javascript frameworks, we'll focus on Backbone for similar reasons to why we're focusing on Rails... it's probably the most straightforward and best documented one out there.  That doesn't mean it's the shiniest or the newest, but if you've mastered your fundamentals in Backbone you'll be more than capable of picking up a slightly more esoteric framework.  And there are a whole lot of websites out there that need to be built and maintained in Backbone (ahem, jobs).

This is probably the most "advanced" material we'll be taking a look at during this Web Development 101 unit since it relies most heavily on understanding a lot of things beforehand (like Javascript, MVC, frameworks, JQuery, APIs...) before you're really able to appreciate the need for it.  Because of this, we won't be doing any exercises or anything like that, we're just trying to get you exposed to what Backbone looks like so you can start wondering what you're going to need to use it for and how later on.

## Points to Ponder

*Look through these now and then use them to test yourself after doing the assignment*

* What are the major differences between a front end and back end framework?
* What language is Backbone written in?
* What are the advantages to using Backbone over just normal javascript?
* What elements of Backbone are nearly identical to Rails?
* What elements of Backbone are very different from Rails?

## Assignment:

1. Read through the [nettuts backbone explanation](http://net.tutsplus.com/tutorials/javascript-ajax/getting-started-with-backbone-js/).  It should be somewhat confusing but you should also notice some structural similarities to Rails, even though this is on the front end.  Again, don't worry if you're confused by what you're reading.  The point isn't to absorb everything, it's just to kind of get a feel for what's waiting.  We won't cover Backbone until fairly late in the course when you're a Jedi Javascript Master.
2. Also check out the [CodeBeerStartups Backbone guide](http://www.codebeerstartups.com/2012/12/a-complete-guide-for-learning-backbone-js/) chapters 1 and 2 for some slightly more plain-english explanations.  Again, don't panic... you'll learn this later.

## Additional Resources

*This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something*


* The [Backbone Documentation](http://backbonejs.org/)

Commit message:

just some notes on current resources - not an update/file change
if there's a better way to do this (make comments) let me know please!

web_development_101/backbone_basics.md, after:

# Backbone.js 101
<!-- *Estimated Time: 1 hr* -->
<!-- This lesson can be deleted, it adds no value to this part of the course and will only serve to confuse students who have only scratched the surfice of rails -->

You thought only server-side languages could utilize frameworks?  Think again.  More and more heavy lifting is being done in the browser these days and that means lots of repetitive and disorganized code to tidy up (and Javascript can get awfully disorganized).  

While there are many popular Javascript frameworks, we'll focus on Backbone for similar reasons to why we're focusing on Rails... it's probably the most straightforward and best documented one out there.  That doesn't mean it's the shiniest or the newest, but if you've mastered your fundamentals in Backbone you'll be more than capable of picking up a slightly more esoteric framework.  And there are a whole lot of websites out there that need to be built and maintained in Backbone (ahem, jobs).

This is probably the most "advanced" material we'll be taking a look at during this Web Development 101 unit since it relies most heavily on understanding a lot of things beforehand (like Javascript, MVC, frameworks, JQuery, APIs...) before you're really able to appreciate the need for it.  Because of this, we won't be doing any exercises or anything like that, we're just trying to get you exposed to what Backbone looks like so you can start wondering what you're going to need to use it for and how later on.

## Points to Ponder

*Look through these now and then use them to test yourself after doing the assignment*

* What are the major differences between a front end and back end framework?
* What language is Backbone written in?
* What are the advantages to using Backbone over just normal javascript?
* What elements of Backbone are nearly identical to Rails?
* What elements of Backbone are very different from Rails?

## Assignment:

1. Read through the [nettuts backbone explanation](http://net.tutsplus.com/tutorials/javascript-ajax/getting-started-with-backbone-js/).  It should be somewhat confusing but you should also notice some structural similarities to Rails, even though this is on the front end.  Again, don't worry if you're confused by what you're reading.  The point isn't to absorb everything, it's just to kind of get a feel for what's waiting.  We won't cover Backbone until fairly late in the course when you're a Jedi Javascript Master.
2. Also check out the [CodeBeerStartups Backbone guide](http://www.codebeerstartups.com/2012/12/a-complete-guide-for-learning-backbone-js/) chapters 1 and 2 for some slightly more plain-english explanations.  Again, don't panic... you'll learn this later.
^^this second article is full of typos/grammar errors (I can see that the writer may not know english as a first language - and there seems to be good information here code/screenshot wise, but it's disjointed). It also does not appear to have been updated in 4 years according to the github - there has to be a better resource out there by now. Further - lots of people had not-nice things to say when the author posted this tutorial in the comments for the first one- the tutsplus. NOT anything against the author - and I know this section was prefaced with 'you won't get much of this yet'. but I hope someone has a better explanation! I've googled around and can't find anything better off the top, but I will continue looking. The first one is alright, still not my favorite. 
## Additional Resources

*This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something*


* The [Backbone Documentation](http://backbonejs.org/)
