web_development_101/gearing_up.md, before:

#Gearing up for success
Learning how to program takes work, Like any skill worth knowing it takes time to acquire and it can't
be learned in a weekend or month for that matter. With that said, we believe anyone can learn how to program as long as they are willing to put in the time and effort. So before we get into the meat of the curriculum, it would be beneficial to go over the following so you  can get the most out of Odin:

* the things that will help you succeed in your goal of learning to code.
* the pitfalls that you should try to avoid.

## Mindset
Your mindset is very important when teaching yourself *any* new skills - not just
programming. Your mindset will have more of an impact on your chances of success than just about
anything else.

We will look at getting clear about what your motivation for learning
programming is and getting yourself into the growth mindset so that you
have the right mentality when approaching challenges through out the curriculum.

###Your Motivation For Learning Programming
Your motivation to learn to code could be to have a fulfilling career that pays
well; it could the creative outlet programming provides; it may be to have the
skills and abilities to build any sort of app you can think of; it might be to start
your own company by turning an app idea you have into reality. It may be a
combination of these reasons or something else entirely.

Whatever the reasons you have for learning to program, you should take a moment to
think about what it is. Hold on tightly to your reasons - they will be what pulls you through to the end of this journey, giving you a definitive goal to aim towards.

To give your motivation a bit of a boost you can read about the success of others:

* [A woman who taught herself enough to land a job in 5 months](http://newcodegirl.blogspot.co.uk)
* [A blacksmith who taught himself how to code](http://joshuakemp.blogspot.co.uk/2013/11/how-blacksmith-learned-to-code-and-9.html)
* [This 32 year old who taught himself programming using the odin project over the period of a year and landed a job](https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/comments/34r807/im_32_years_old_and_just_started_my_first/?)
* [Another guy who used the odin project to get a job](https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/comments/4goiwx/i_got_hiredagain/?)

###The Growth Mindset
There is a wide body of research that supports that intelligence is not fixed, that
it can be developed. People usually fall into one of the following two mindsets:

**Fixed Mindset:**

Someone who believes if they don't get something on their first attempt they never
will and that they aren't smart enough to be able to do or understand some things.

**Growth Mindset:**

Someone that believes they can get better at anything with effort and persistence.

What does this mean for you? it means you can learn new skills and develop new
talents with **persistence and grit**. There will be many times throughout Odin
that you will be stuck with a concept or a programming problem and may find
yourself questioning your ability to learn programming.

When you find yourself in this position, remind yourself that you may not get it
*yet* but with persistence and grit you will. Struggling with something is
growth. It doesn't matter how long you struggle with a concept or project; all
that matters is that you have the grit and tenacity to see it through, that's how
real learning happens.

While you're working through the curriculum, embrace the struggles you encounter
with learning difficult concepts and completing projects. And celebrate your
persistence at overcoming those struggles.

When you find yourself questioning your ability reflect on the successes you have
already had while learning to program - the projects you have completed and the
concepts you, at one time, didn't understand but now do. This is all the proof you need
that you can do it.

To learn more about the growth mindset use these resources:

* [Believe you can get better](https://www.ted.com/talks/carol_dweck_the_power_of_believing_that_you_can_improve)
* [Grit](https://www.ted.com/talks/angela_lee_duckworth_the_key_to_success_grit)
* [You can learn anything](https://www.khanacademy.org/about/blog/post/95208400815/the-learning-myth-why-ill-never-tell-my-son-hes)

## The Best ways to Learn
Odin's curriculum has two fundamental aspects: lessons and projects.

Lessons: You will be assigned resources to read, watch and do in a lesson. These are comprised of various resources we have gathered from all over the internet. The reason why we do this, over rolling our own material for everything, is because this allows us to utilise the very best resources to teach you. These are resources created by experts in their fields and are the authorities in what they are teaching.

Projects: Most of these lessons are followed by projects that allow you to practice and solidify the concepts you have just learned about in the previous lessons. Most of the projects will give you a description of the problem you have to solve or the website you have to build. This allows you to be as creative as you like with the solution and with little hand holding.

Through Odin you will learn to be independent learners, it's the only way you can
truly learn programming.

### The Process of Learning
Learning involves context. It is by learning concepts and then practicing them
which will help you to solidify how things work and fit together. Projects are
the ultimate way of indicating whether your theory matches up with how the
programming concepts and techniques actually operate.

When learning, your mind will consistently switch between the following two states:

**Focus mode:**

This state occurs when you are consciously focusing on learning, reading,
watching videos or working on a project.

**Diffuse mode:**

This state occurs subconsciously, at times when you are not actively learning,
such as doing the dishes, exercising, sleeping etc. When in this state your mind
goes about the business of connecting what you have been learning to the other
things you know. This is where break-throughs happen.

It's important to know that your mind goes through these two states to learn
because you can utilise this to make your learning more efficient. When stuck on
a concept or project taking a break to refresh and let your subconscious go to work
connecting what you are learning together more often than not leads to a solution
to your problem. The trick is that you have to put effort into solving the problem
first and then take a break.

In short, understand it, practice it, and finally teach it.

Teaching what you know to others is a great way to solidify what you have learnt
and can often reveal holes in your knowledge that you wouldn't have identified
otherwise. You can use our [slack chat](http://www.theodinproject.com/chat) to
practice this method of learning by answering questions and helping students who
are not as far in  the course as you are. Don't forget to introduce yourself!

* To learn more about the best ways to learn, [learning how to learn on coursera](https://www.coursera.org/learn/learning-how-to-learn) is highly recommended.

* The Ruby Rogues have a [podcast on How to Learn](http://rubyrogues.com/131-rr-how-to-learn/) which should be motivational and useful to you, so check it out for some useful thoughts on learning.

### What to do when you are stuck
You will inevitably be stuck at some point in the curriculum, it may be due to
a concept that you are having difficulty understanding or it may be due to
something not working when you are doing a project. Whatever it is, use the
following processes to get unstuck:

* Google it - you can be sure someone else out there has had the same problem as
you at some point, a quick Google can often lead to a solution.
* Take a break - allow your diffuse state to work on the problem.
* Ask for help in our [chat](http://www.theodinproject.com/chat) - come prepared
with your research done, people will be more willing to help you when they can see
you have already put effort into trying to figure out the solution.

## Managing your Study Time
You will have more success with Odin by putting **consistent** time into it rather
than working on it every other day. Building a habit of studying everyday at
a specific time and for a specific amount of time will ensure you make consistent
progress.

### How to Avoid Procrastination
Procrastination will be your biggest enemy when trying to make progress, this is how
to avoid it:

**Use the Pomodoro Technique:**

The Pomodoro technique is a way of managing your time in order to stay focused.
You basically set a timer for 25 minutes and work on a task until the timer goes
off. You then take a 5 minute break and go again for 25 minutes once your break
is over.

If you get distracted or interrupted during the 25 minutes you have to start the
25 minutes of work over again.

The Pomodoro technique is great for avoiding procrastination as it forces you to
work without distractions. And since it's only for 25 minutes before taking a break, it's not overwhelming, making it harder to rationalise procrastinating.

To learn more about the Pomodoro technique read this [great article](https://medium.com/skhack-life-2-0/multiply-your-productivity-with-pomodoro-eeac2645a78e#.clvcxxyk8).

**Avoid Digital Distractions:**

Digital distractions are email and Facebook notifications, time wasting websites
like social networks. These kinds of distractions break your focus and make it
tempting to procrastinate they should be avoided during study time.

Solution: turn off notifications and add a blocker to your internet to limit time
on time wasting sites like Facebook.

**Avoid Physical Distractions in your Environment:**

Physical distractions are distractions from your environment, things like a TV in
the background, other people speaking etc. These are just as much a nuisance to
breaking your focus as digital distractions.

Solution: find a quiet study place in your home you can go to to focus, if that's
not an option you can use noise cancelling head phones to block out any noise
distractions from your environment.

## Pitfalls to Avoid
The following are some of the pitfalls that beginners often make when learning how
to program, try your best to avoid these.

###Don't get pulled into rabbit holes
Because we cover so much material on Odin and link to so many high quality, outside
courses and tools, it is easy for students to get pulled into rabbit holes by
spending time trying to learn all there is to know about a subject that they aren't
ready for or wont have much benefit to them. **We have put a lot of effort into structuring the curriculum** so that all of the important things that you need to
know about web development are covered exactly when you need to know them.

To get the best results from this curriculum try to **stick to the path laid out**
as much as possible and try to limit time spent going down rabbit holes as these
sidetracks can really ruin your momentum.

###Don't compare yourself to others
Measure progress against yourself and don't compare yourself to others. Students
often compare themselves against others who are further along in their coding
journey or have more experience. This is a recipe for depression and frustration.
Only compare yourself to your past self, can you do or know more than you did
last week, month or year? Then you are making progress.

###Conclusion
Learning any new skill is a journey full of speed bumps and obstacles to be
overcome. We hope that the principles here will help you as you go forward and
put you in a much better position to succeed and get the most out of Odin.
Without further ado, lets get stuck in to learning Web development.

### Extra resources:
* [Learning to code when it gets dark](https://medium.freecodecamp.com/learning-to-code-when-it-gets-dark-e485edfb58fd#.yjh0fehje)
* [Why learning to code is so damn hard](https://www.vikingcodeschool.com/posts/why-learning-to-code-is-so-damn-hard)

Commit message:

Added link to tomatotimer in pomodoro section
I've been using this timer at work for the last couple of weeks and it's done wonders! Great to see the Pomodoro suggestion in the new section!

web_development_101/gearing_up.md, after:

#Gearing up for success
Learning how to program takes work, Like any skill worth knowing it takes time to acquire and it can't
be learned in a weekend or month for that matter. With that said, we believe anyone can learn how to program as long as they are willing to put in the time and effort. So before we get into the meat of the curriculum, it would be beneficial to go over the following so you  can get the most out of Odin:

* the things that will help you succeed in your goal of learning to code.
* the pitfalls that you should try to avoid.

## Mindset
Your mindset is very important when teaching yourself *any* new skills - not just
programming. Your mindset will have more of an impact on your chances of success than just about
anything else.

We will look at getting clear about what your motivation for learning
programming is and getting yourself into the growth mindset so that you
have the right mentality when approaching challenges through out the curriculum.

###Your Motivation For Learning Programming
Your motivation to learn to code could be to have a fulfilling career that pays
well; it could the creative outlet programming provides; it may be to have the
skills and abilities to build any sort of app you can think of; it might be to start
your own company by turning an app idea you have into reality. It may be a
combination of these reasons or something else entirely.

Whatever the reasons you have for learning to program, you should take a moment to
think about what it is. Hold on tightly to your reasons - they will be what pulls you through to the end of this journey, giving you a definitive goal to aim towards.

To give your motivation a bit of a boost you can read about the success of others:

* [A woman who taught herself enough to land a job in 5 months](http://newcodegirl.blogspot.co.uk)
* [A blacksmith who taught himself how to code](http://joshuakemp.blogspot.co.uk/2013/11/how-blacksmith-learned-to-code-and-9.html)
* [This 32 year old who taught himself programming using the odin project over the period of a year and landed a job](https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/comments/34r807/im_32_years_old_and_just_started_my_first/?)
* [Another guy who used the odin project to get a job](https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/comments/4goiwx/i_got_hiredagain/?)

###The Growth Mindset
There is a wide body of research that supports that intelligence is not fixed, that
it can be developed. People usually fall into one of the following two mindsets:

**Fixed Mindset:**

Someone who believes if they don't get something on their first attempt they never
will and that they aren't smart enough to be able to do or understand some things.

**Growth Mindset:**

Someone that believes they can get better at anything with effort and persistence.

What does this mean for you? it means you can learn new skills and develop new
talents with **persistence and grit**. There will be many times throughout Odin
that you will be stuck with a concept or a programming problem and may find
yourself questioning your ability to learn programming.

When you find yourself in this position, remind yourself that you may not get it
*yet* but with persistence and grit you will. Struggling with something is
growth. It doesn't matter how long you struggle with a concept or project; all
that matters is that you have the grit and tenacity to see it through, that's how
real learning happens.

While you're working through the curriculum, embrace the struggles you encounter
with learning difficult concepts and completing projects. And celebrate your
persistence at overcoming those struggles.

When you find yourself questioning your ability reflect on the successes you have
already had while learning to program - the projects you have completed and the
concepts you, at one time, didn't understand but now do. This is all the proof you need
that you can do it.

To learn more about the growth mindset use these resources:

* [Believe you can get better](https://www.ted.com/talks/carol_dweck_the_power_of_believing_that_you_can_improve)
* [Grit](https://www.ted.com/talks/angela_lee_duckworth_the_key_to_success_grit)
* [You can learn anything](https://www.khanacademy.org/about/blog/post/95208400815/the-learning-myth-why-ill-never-tell-my-son-hes)

## The Best ways to Learn
Odin's curriculum has two fundamental aspects: lessons and projects.

Lessons: You will be assigned resources to read, watch and do in a lesson. These are comprised of various resources we have gathered from all over the internet. The reason why we do this, over rolling our own material for everything, is because this allows us to utilise the very best resources to teach you. These are resources created by experts in their fields and are the authorities in what they are teaching.

Projects: Most of these lessons are followed by projects that allow you to practice and solidify the concepts you have just learned about in the previous lessons. Most of the projects will give you a description of the problem you have to solve or the website you have to build. This allows you to be as creative as you like with the solution and with little hand holding.

Through Odin you will learn to be independent learners, it's the only way you can
truly learn programming.

### The Process of Learning
Learning involves context. It is by learning concepts and then practicing them
which will help you to solidify how things work and fit together. Projects are
the ultimate way of indicating whether your theory matches up with how the
programming concepts and techniques actually operate.

When learning, your mind will consistently switch between the following two states:

**Focus mode:**

This state occurs when you are consciously focusing on learning, reading,
watching videos or working on a project.

**Diffuse mode:**

This state occurs subconsciously, at times when you are not actively learning,
such as doing the dishes, exercising, sleeping etc. When in this state your mind
goes about the business of connecting what you have been learning to the other
things you know. This is where break-throughs happen.

It's important to know that your mind goes through these two states to learn
because you can utilise this to make your learning more efficient. When stuck on
a concept or project taking a break to refresh and let your subconscious go to work
connecting what you are learning together more often than not leads to a solution
to your problem. The trick is that you have to put effort into solving the problem
first and then take a break.

In short, understand it, practice it, and finally teach it.

Teaching what you know to others is a great way to solidify what you have learnt
and can often reveal holes in your knowledge that you wouldn't have identified
otherwise. You can use our [slack chat](http://www.theodinproject.com/chat) to
practice this method of learning by answering questions and helping students who
are not as far in  the course as you are. Don't forget to introduce yourself!

* To learn more about the best ways to learn, [learning how to learn on coursera](https://www.coursera.org/learn/learning-how-to-learn) is highly recommended.

* The Ruby Rogues have a [podcast on How to Learn](http://rubyrogues.com/131-rr-how-to-learn/) which should be motivational and useful to you, so check it out for some useful thoughts on learning.

### What to do when you are stuck
You will inevitably be stuck at some point in the curriculum, it may be due to
a concept that you are having difficulty understanding or it may be due to
something not working when you are doing a project. Whatever it is, use the
following processes to get unstuck:

* Google it - you can be sure someone else out there has had the same problem as
you at some point, a quick Google can often lead to a solution.
* Take a break - allow your diffuse state to work on the problem.
* Ask for help in our [chat](http://www.theodinproject.com/chat) - come prepared
with your research done, people will be more willing to help you when they can see
you have already put effort into trying to figure out the solution.

## Managing your Study Time
You will have more success with Odin by putting **consistent** time into it rather
than working on it every other day. Building a habit of studying everyday at
a specific time and for a specific amount of time will ensure you make consistent
progress.

### How to Avoid Procrastination
Procrastination will be your biggest enemy when trying to make progress, this is how
to avoid it:

**Use the Pomodoro Technique:**

The Pomodoro technique is a way of managing your time in order to stay focused.
You basically set a timer for 25 minutes and work on a task until the timer goes
off. You then take a 5 minute break and go again for 25 minutes once your break
is over.

If you get distracted or interrupted during the 25 minutes you have to start the
25 minutes of work over again.

The Pomodoro technique is great for avoiding procrastination as it forces you to
work without distractions. And since it's only for 25 minutes before taking a break, it's not overwhelming, making it harder to rationalise procrastinating.

To learn more about the Pomodoro technique read this [great article](https://medium.com/skhack-life-2-0/multiply-your-productivity-with-pomodoro-eeac2645a78e#.clvcxxyk8).

And here's an easy to use Pomodoro timer: [TomatoTimer](http://tomato-timer.com/#)

**Avoid Digital Distractions:**

Digital distractions are email and Facebook notifications, time wasting websites
like social networks. These kinds of distractions break your focus and make it
tempting to procrastinate they should be avoided during study time.

Solution: turn off notifications and add a blocker to your internet to limit time
on time wasting sites like Facebook.

**Avoid Physical Distractions in your Environment:**

Physical distractions are distractions from your environment, things like a TV in
the background, other people speaking etc. These are just as much a nuisance to
breaking your focus as digital distractions.

Solution: find a quiet study place in your home you can go to to focus, if that's
not an option you can use noise cancelling head phones to block out any noise
distractions from your environment.

## Pitfalls to Avoid
The following are some of the pitfalls that beginners often make when learning how
to program, try your best to avoid these.

###Don't get pulled into rabbit holes
Because we cover so much material on Odin and link to so many high quality, outside
courses and tools, it is easy for students to get pulled into rabbit holes by
spending time trying to learn all there is to know about a subject that they aren't
ready for or wont have much benefit to them. **We have put a lot of effort into structuring the curriculum** so that all of the important things that you need to
know about web development are covered exactly when you need to know them.

To get the best results from this curriculum try to **stick to the path laid out**
as much as possible and try to limit time spent going down rabbit holes as these
sidetracks can really ruin your momentum.

###Don't compare yourself to others
Measure progress against yourself and don't compare yourself to others. Students
often compare themselves against others who are further along in their coding
journey or have more experience. This is a recipe for depression and frustration.
Only compare yourself to your past self, can you do or know more than you did
last week, month or year? Then you are making progress.

###Conclusion
Learning any new skill is a journey full of speed bumps and obstacles to be
overcome. We hope that the principles here will help you as you go forward and
put you in a much better position to succeed and get the most out of Odin.
Without further ado, lets get stuck in to learning Web development.

### Extra resources:
* [Learning to code when it gets dark](https://medium.freecodecamp.com/learning-to-code-when-it-gets-dark-e485edfb58fd#.yjh0fehje)
* [Why learning to code is so damn hard](https://www.vikingcodeschool.com/posts/why-learning-to-code-is-so-damn-hard)
