web_development_101/how_are_websites_built.md, before:

# How Are Websites Actually Built in the Real World?
<!-- *Estimated Time: 2-4 hrs* -->
<!-- I dont think this lesson adds much value, it could possibly be deleted or added to an electives course -->

You've spent a lot of time learning all the component pieces of a web application.  In the Rails project, you were (hopefully) able to actually build one.  This lesson is a step back so you can get a chance to breathe and see the forest instead of being lost in the trees.  

You will be building applications either for yourself or someone else, and in either case that application will be part of a greater project with some sort of user-focused goal, i.e. what does it enable the user to do?  So it should be pretty obvious that the application is just a part of a larger whole, and in the real world you'll be interacting with multiple people during the process of its creation.

We've mentioned that Rails lets you develop applications very quickly and have thrown around the term "Agile Development", but now you'll get a chance to take a deeper look at that term and what it means.  You'll also zoom out even more and start thinking for a bit about the ecosystem of the companies that are having applications built.  

Maybe that's directly relevant to the startup you're hoping to build or maybe it will be representative of the client you serve while you're building up your skillsets.  Either way, understanding why you're building what you're building is an important piece of context that can't be understated.

## Points to Ponder

*Look through these now and then use them to test yourself after doing the assignment*

* What are the major components of a Rails application?
* What is Waterfall Development?
* What is Waterfall good for?
* What is Agile Development?
* What is Agile good for?
* Why does testing fit well into an Agile methodology?
* What does DRY mean?
* What is a user "Role"?
* What is a "User Story"?
* What's the difference between a "Feature" and a story?
* At what stage of a startup should you start building your web app?
* What members of a team typically work together to produce a web application?

## Your Assignment: 
1. Start by refreshing your understanding of the web application itself by reading through [The Anatomy of a Web Application](http://www.buildingwebapps.com/transcript/79327-anatomy-of-a-web-application) (you can listen to audio of it by clicking the link on the left side) and pay particular attention to what's happening on the client vs the server side.  It gets a bit more into the guts of what Rails is doing, and this will be valuable for understanding what you'll be building later on.
2. Zoom out a bit to get a bigger picture of software development methodologies by starting at [minute 36 of this Berkeley SAAS course video lecture](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fr-B4xHZRzY&list=PLuCVssMJ_UI1DneCzaU7BpAy94CvQQgGq&index=1).  You'll also get a perspective of how and why Rails fits well into Agile methodologies.
1. Read Lee Edwards' answer to the Quora question ["What's an Efficient Web App Development Process"](http://www.quora.com/Ruby-on-Rails/Whats-an-efficient-web-app-development-process) to get better acquainted with the actual flow of app production.  He is a developer at Pivotal Labs, which uses Agile Development methodologies.
2. Zoom out even more and think about the startups and companies that are building web applications by reading through the [ThoughtBot Playbook](http://playbook.thoughtbot.com/), an online playbook for how to build a product (and work with ThoughtBot consultants, of course).


## Additional Resources

*This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something*

* [RailsApps' brief guide to Startup Project Management](http://railsapps.github.io/rails-project-management.html) contains helpful tools, links, and terminology
* Get a more general sense of Agile Development from the [About.com Agile Development entry](http://ruby.about.com/od/rubyonrails/a/agile.htm).

Commit message:

Resolve Broken Link #5049
I added the links as discussed. I also reached out to Albert Park to inquire whether he would be finishing with part III. He replied that he was planning on it, but since now he knows there is interest, he will move it higher on the priority list. Once he publishes it, I'll update this page. In the meantime I made sure to acknowledge that the two parts only deal with views and controllers.

web_development_101/how_are_websites_built.md, after:

# How Are Websites Actually Built in the Real World?
<!-- *Estimated Time: 2-4 hrs* -->
<!-- I dont think this lesson adds much value, it could possibly be deleted or added to an electives course -->

You've spent a lot of time learning all the component pieces of a web application.  In the Rails project, you were (hopefully) able to actually build one.  This lesson is a step back so you can get a chance to breathe and see the forest instead of being lost in the trees.  

You will be building applications either for yourself or someone else, and in either case that application will be part of a greater project with some sort of user-focused goal, i.e. what does it enable the user to do?  So it should be pretty obvious that the application is just a part of a larger whole, and in the real world you'll be interacting with multiple people during the process of its creation.

We've mentioned that Rails lets you develop applications very quickly and have thrown around the term "Agile Development", but now you'll get a chance to take a deeper look at that term and what it means.  You'll also zoom out even more and start thinking for a bit about the ecosystem of the companies that are having applications built.  

Maybe that's directly relevant to the startup you're hoping to build or maybe it will be representative of the client you serve while you're building up your skillsets.  Either way, understanding why you're building what you're building is an important piece of context that can't be understated.

## Points to Ponder

*Look through these now and then use them to test yourself after doing the assignment*

* What are the major components of a Rails application?
* What is Waterfall Development?
* What is Waterfall good for?
* What is Agile Development?
* What is Agile good for?
* Why does testing fit well into an Agile methodology?
* What does DRY mean?
* What is a user "Role"?
* What is a "User Story"?
* What's the difference between a "Feature" and a story?
* At what stage of a startup should you start building your web app?
* What members of a team typically work together to produce a web application?

## Your Assignment: 
1. Start by refreshing your understanding of the web application itself by reading through the short article, [Models, Views, and Controllers, Oh My!: Anatomy of a Rails App](http://blog.roberteshleman.com/2014/07/07/models-views-and-controllers-oh-my-anatomy-of-a-rails-app/) by Robert Eshleman.  Pay particular attention to what's happening on the client vs the server side. Then take a look at a more in depth series by Albert Park: [part one](http://codergeneral.com/anatomy-of-a-rails-application-part-i-views/), and [part two](http://www.albertpark.io/anatomy-of-a-rails-application-part-ii-controllers/).  It gets a bit more into the guts of what Rails is doing with views and controllers, and this will be valuable for understanding what you'll be building later on.
2. Zoom out a bit to get a bigger picture of software development methodologies by starting at [minute 36 of this Berkeley SAAS course video lecture](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fr-B4xHZRzY&list=PLuCVssMJ_UI1DneCzaU7BpAy94CvQQgGq&index=1).  You'll also get a perspective of how and why Rails fits well into Agile methodologies.
1. Read Lee Edwards' answer to the Quora question ["What's an Efficient Web App Development Process"](http://www.quora.com/Ruby-on-Rails/Whats-an-efficient-web-app-development-process) to get better acquainted with the actual flow of app production.  He is a developer at Pivotal Labs, which uses Agile Development methodologies.
2. Zoom out even more and think about the startups and companies that are building web applications by reading through the [ThoughtBot Playbook](http://playbook.thoughtbot.com/), an online playbook for how to build a product (and work with ThoughtBot consultants, of course).


## Additional Resources

*This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something*

* [RailsApps' brief guide to Startup Project Management](http://railsapps.github.io/rails-project-management.html) contains helpful tools, links, and terminology
* Get a more general sense of Agile Development from the [About.com Agile Development entry](http://ruby.about.com/od/rubyonrails/a/agile.htm).
