web_development_101/installfest_text_editors.md, before:

### Introduction
A text editor is by far the most used tool of a developer. This holds true no matter what kind of developer you are. A good text editor can also help you write better code as well by helping out with real-time code linting, syntax highlighting, and automatic formatting.

### Why can't I use Microsoft Word?

Rich text editors like Microsoft Word, or Libre-Office Writer, are great for writing a paper, but for the same reason they are good at creating nicely formatted documents, they are not suited for writing code. A document created with these kinds of editors have more than just text embedded in their files. They have information on how to display the text on the screen, along with any graphics embedded into the document. A plain text editor, like notepad or nano, doesn't save this information along with the file. When saved, you simply save the information you see on the screen, directly into the text file. Doing this allows other programs, like Ruby's interpreter, to read and execute the file as code.

### What comes on my OS?

Operating systems generally come with a "plain-text" text editor on the computer. These are generally used for simple edits of configuration files when you do not need any special features.

#### Linux/MacOS

* Vi/Vim: `vi` will come pre-installed with all versions of Linux, it is a complex editor with many features, but is not beginner friendly. If you are interested in `vi`. Install `vim` (Vimproved), and run the command `vimtutor`.

* Nano: Another, more friendly basic text editor that comes with most of the common flavors of linux. You can access this by typing `nano` in the console/terminal.

* Gedit (Ubuntu Only): This comes with Ubuntu, It is a nice text editor and is a bridge between command line based editors and graphical text editors.

* TextEdit (MacOS Only): Similar to notepad on windows with some extra features.

#### Windows

* Notepad: This comes installed with any modern version of windows. It isn't great for much other than editing configuration files.

### Advanced Editors

Advanced editors are similar to the ones that may come installed on an OS already, but they have many more features. Addons, syntax highlighting, auto-closing of braces, and linting to name a few. They have many tools that are useful to both new and experienced developers. While these suggestions are not the only editors you can use, they are some of the favorites around The Odin Project's community.

#### Sublime Text

Sublime is extremely light-weight and flexible, however it is not free. You can use it for a while, and decide for yourself if it is worth the purchase or not. This editor is favored by many, and is by no means a bad editor.

Check it out [here](https://www.sublimetext.com/).

#### VSCode

VSCode is a newer editor created by Microsoft, and is completely free. It has outstanding addon support and great git integration. This editor is the most popular among Odin's students and moderators and support is easy to find in the community. For this reason, we recommend you use this editor.

Check it out [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

### Conclusion

What editor you use is a matter of preference, and it does not hurt to shop around until you find one that you really enjoy using and works for you.

Commit message:

update text_editors to clearly favor vscode for course

web_development_101/installfest_text_editors.md, after:

### Introduction
A text editor is by far the most used tool of a developer. This holds true no matter what kind of developer you are. A good text editor can also help you write better code as well by helping out with real-time code linting, syntax highlighting, and automatic formatting.

### Why can't I use Microsoft Word?

Rich text editors like Microsoft Word, or Libre-Office Writer, are great for writing a paper, but for the same reason they are good at creating nicely formatted documents, they are not suited for writing code. A document created with these kinds of editors have more than just text embedded in their files. They have information on how to display the text on the screen, along with any graphics embedded into the document. A plain text editor, like notepad or nano, doesn't save this information along with the file. When saved, you simply save the information you see on the screen, directly into the text file. Doing this allows other programs, like Ruby's interpreter, to read and execute the file as code.

### What comes on my OS?

Operating systems generally come with a "plain-text" text editor on the computer. These are generally used for simple edits of configuration files when you do not need any special features.

#### Linux/MacOS

* Vi/Vim: `vi` will come pre-installed with all versions of Linux, it is a complex editor with many features, but is not beginner friendly. If you are interested in `vi`. Install `vim` (Vimproved), and run the command `vimtutor`.

* Nano: Another, more friendly basic text editor that comes with most of the common flavors of linux. You can access this by typing `nano` in the console/terminal.

* Gedit (Ubuntu Only): This comes with Ubuntu, It is a nice text editor and is a bridge between command line based editors and graphical text editors.

* TextEdit (MacOS Only): Similar to notepad on windows with some extra features.

#### Windows

* Notepad: This comes installed with any modern version of windows. It isn't great for much other than editing configuration files.

### Advanced Editors

Advanced editors are similar to the ones that may come installed on an OS already, but they have many more features. Addons, syntax highlighting, auto-closing of braces, and linting to name a few. They have many tools that are useful to both new and experienced developers. While these suggestions are not the only editors you can use, they are some of the favorites around The Odin Project's community.

#### Sublime Text

Sublime is extremely light-weight and flexible, however it is not free. You can use it for a while, and decide for yourself if it is worth the purchase or not. This editor is favored by many, and is by no means a bad editor.

Check it out [here](https://www.sublimetext.com/).

#### VSCode

VSCode is a newer editor created by Microsoft, and is completely free. It has outstanding addon support and great git integration. This editor is the most popular among Odin's students and moderators and support is easy to find in the community. For this reason, we recommend you use this editor.

Check it out [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

### Conclusion

What editor you use is a matter of preference, and it does not hurt to shop around until you find one that you really enjoy using and works for you. **BUT** for the purposes of this course, we are going to assume you are using VSCode. Mainly because it is free, easy to use, and works pretty much the same on every operating system.

If you are already comfortable with something else, or just want to use a different editor, great! just know that there will be the occasional spot where you will have to do something slightly differently than what we say. But since you are an intelligent and resourceful software developer, you will be just fine.
