web_development_101/project_ruby.md, before:

# Project: Ruby
<!-- *Estimated Time: 4-6 hrs* -->

You've had plenty of opportunity to read Ruby and learn Ruby and now it's time to build Ruby.  You learned about RSpec in the previous section and now we'll actually get to do some Test-First Ruby! That means you'll be downloading a bunch of test files and your job will be to make them pass by writing code.  It's a great way to start writing some real Ruby scripts and learn some testing at the same time.

This exercise will involve a lot of figuring things out.  There aren't very detailed instructions for what to do, just the batch of tests that you need to make pass.  You need to look at those tests, figure out what they want based on the error messages you receive, and write the code to pass them.  It can be tricky to get the hang of at first but once you start making those tests go green it starts feeling pretty cool.


1. Follow the instructions atop the [Google Homepage project](/web-development-101/html-css) to set up a Github repository for this project (of course you'll need to change the title).
1. Go to [testfirst.org's Learn Ruby section](http://testfirst.org/learn_ruby) ([Backup copy here](https://web.archive.org/web/20140328135623/http://testfirst.org/learn_ruby)) and follow the installation instructions.  Basically, you'll be either cloning their Github repository or downloading a zipped file containing all the test files (there are 15).  By opening the main `index.html` file in a browser, you'll have instructions waiting for you which describe what's going on, how to run the tests, and where to put your code so the tests can see it.  The exercises start easy but some of them can be pretty challenging, so good luck! **Update!** Testfirst.org appears to be down but you can download the problem sets from [this Github repository](https://github.com/alexch/learn_ruby) by running `git clone git://github.com/alexch/learn_ruby.git` if you have Git (we're still looking for a .zip file link alternative).  Open the `index.html` file in your local browser once you've downloaded it to receive instructions.
2. If you absolutely must use an in-browser environment (it would be better for you to do this on your own machine), one is available specifically for these exercises at [http://testfirst.org/live](http://testfirst.org/live). Note for Windows users: As of September 2014, the current version of Rspec is broken in Windows. If this is your first time using rspec (invoked with a different program here that comes with the gem, called Rake), when installing the gem, instead of "gem install rspec", type "gem install rspec -v 2.14.1" into terminal instead.
3. Do the following exercises.  You'll know you're done when all the tests pass!
    1. `00_hello`
    2. `01_temperature`
    3. `02_calculator`
    4. `03_simon_says`
    5. `04_pig_latin`
    6. `08_book_titles`
    7. `09_timer`
5. Push your project to Github

## Student Solutions

*Submit a link below to the github repo with your files in it by using a pull request.  See the section on [Contributing](http://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/blob/master/contributing.md) for how.  Please include your partner's github handle somewhere in the description if you had one and they would like attribution.*

* ["Official" Test-First Ruby solutions](https://github.com/ultrasaurus/test-first-teaching/tree/master/learn_ruby) (look for the "solutions" folder inside each exercise)
* [DucPhan's solution](https://github.com/phanducsjsu/Test-First-Ruby)
* [ErikHP's solution](https://github.com/ErikHP/test-first-ruby)
* [Afshinator's solution](https://github.com/afshinator/playground/tree/master/TestFirstRubyExercises)
* [Paul Dariye's solution](https://github.com/pauldd91/theodinproject/tree/master/learn_ruby)
* [Marina Sergeyeva's solution](https://github.com/imousterian/OdinProject/tree/master/Project1_3_Ruby/learn_ruby)
* [Sergey Prihodko's solution](https://github.com/sprihodko/odin-projects/tree/master/test-first-ruby)
* [Jamie's solution](https://github.com/Jberczel/odin-projects/tree/master/learn_ruby)
* [Angel Vargas' solution](https://github.com/arioth/the-odin-project/tree/master/learn_ruby)
* [Lamberto Diwa's solution](https://github.com/LambertoD/test_first_ruby)
* [Sahil Agarwal's solution](https://github.com/sahilda/the_odin_project/tree/master/testfirst_ruby)
* [Arman Ghassemi's solution](https://github.com/ArmanG/Test-First-Ruby)
* [Michael Ciocca's solution](https://github.com/Mciocca/TheOdinProject/tree/master/Ruby/respec/test_first)
* [d2bit's solution](https://github.com/d2bit/first_test_ruby)
* [Donald's solution](https://github.com/donaldali/odin-webdev101/tree/master/project_ruby)
* [Mazin's solution](https://github.com/muzfuz/CodeLessons/tree/master/RubyBasics)
* [Jason Ellis's solution](https://github.com/jason-ellis/test-first-ruby)
* [Stephanie's solution](https://github.com/Avonyel/ruby-testing)
* [Tommy Noe's solution](https://github.com/thomasjnoe/rspec-intro)
* [Lisa's solution](https://github.com/lisakstep/learn_ruby)
* [Michael Alexander's solution](https://github.com/betweenparentheses/test-first-ruby)
* [James MacIvor's solution](https://github.com/RobotOptimist/learn_ruby)
* [Julie's solution](https://github.com/delorenzo/test-first-ruby)
* [Dorian Iacobescu's solution](https://github.com/iacobson/Odin4-Ruby-TestFirst-Assignment)
* [John Quarles' solution](https://github.com/johnwquarles/test-first-Ruby)
* [Antonio Augusto's solution](https://github.com/antoniosb/test_first_ruby)
* [Jack Nguyen's solution](https://github.com/jnguyen85/test-first_ruby_solutions)
* [Scott Yu's solution](https://github.com/scootcho/the_odin_project/tree/master/ruby/learn_ruby)
* [Chris Dziewa's solution](https://github.com/chrisdziewa/test-ruby)
* [Asish Prabhakar's solution](https://github.com/akottal/ruby101-project)
* [Sami Bashraheel's solution](https://github.com/sami/test_first_ruby)
* [Drew Price's solution](https://github.com/drewprice/study/tree/master/odin-project/projects/learn_ruby/001_solutions)
* [Dominik Stodolny's solution](https://github.com/dstodolny/learn_ruby)
* [Kate McFaul's solution](https://github.com/craftykate/odin-project/tree/master/Chapter_02-Web_Development_101/test_first_ruby)
* [Eleanor Weigert's solution](https://github.com/mixophrygian/Test-First-Ruby)
* [Chasmani's solution](https://github.com/chasmani/Test_First_Ruby_Exercises)
* [Patrick Sullivan's solution](https://github.com/patsul12/odin-rspec)
* [Jason Matthews's solution](https://github.com/fo0man/learn_ruby)
* [Greg Park's solution](https://github.com/gregoryjpark/learn_ruby)
* [Rick Stewart's solution](https://github.com/rickstewart/Project_Ruby_Test_First)
* [Andrea Kulbaba's solution](https://github.com/akulbaba/test-first-ruby-solutions)
* [Chris Hall's solution](https://github.com/Concretechris/learn_ruby)
* [Jeremy Faith's solution](https://github.com/JeremyFaith/odin-projects/tree/master/learn_ruby)
* [Tommy Rodriguez's solution](https://github.com/trodrigu/odinproject/tree/master/learn_ruby)
* [Tamim Sookoor's solution](https://github.com/sookoor/learn_ruby)
* [Matias Pan's solution](https://github.com/kriox26/odin_project/tree/master/rubyproject)
* [Nick Leoutsakos's solution](https://github.com/nleoutsa/Ruby_TDD)
* [NYJY's solution](https://github.com/nyjy85/Ruby/tree/master/odin_project/test-first-ruby)
* [Psidium's solution](https://github.com/Psidium/ruby-exercises)
* [Andrej Dragojevic's solution](https://github.com/antrix1/The-Odin-Project/tree/master/Web%20Development%20101/ruby_testing)
* [Eddie's solution](https://github.com/feek1g/theodinproject/tree/master/rubyProjects)
* [omokoro's solution](https://github.com/omokoro/ruby_project)
* [Josh Klein's solution](https://github.com/kleinjoshuaa/testfirst_ruby)
* [Jeremy Mauzy's solution](https://github.com/apositivejam/the_odin_project/tree/master/Ruby_TDD_exercises)
* [Taylor Buchheit's solution](https://github.com/7aylor/learn_ruby)
* [Gb69010p's solution](https://github.com/gb69010p/learn_ruby)
* [Dan Hoying's solution](https://github.com/danhoying/learn_ruby)
* [Jason's solution](https://github.com/wellsj/learn_ruby)
* [Ricardo Villegas' solution](https://github.com/claricardo/Learn-Ruby)
* Add your solution above this line!


## Additional Resources

*This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something*


* [BetterSpecs.org](http://betterspecs.org/) contains detailed best practices for writing your own tests.  Overkill for this assignment, but potentially interesting for the future.

Commit message:

Add test-first & rspec issue warning

web_development_101/project_ruby.md, after:

# Project: Ruby
<!-- *Estimated Time: 4-6 hrs* -->

You've had plenty of opportunity to read Ruby and learn Ruby and now it's time to build Ruby.  You learned about RSpec in the previous section and now we'll actually get to do some Test-First Ruby! That means you'll be downloading a bunch of test files and your job will be to make them pass by writing code.  It's a great way to start writing some real Ruby scripts and learn some testing at the same time.

This exercise will involve a lot of figuring things out.  There aren't very detailed instructions for what to do, just the batch of tests that you need to make pass.  You need to look at those tests, figure out what they want based on the error messages you receive, and write the code to pass them.  It can be tricky to get the hang of at first but once you start making those tests go green it starts feeling pretty cool.


1. Follow the instructions atop the [Google Homepage project](/web-development-101/html-css) to set up a Github repository for this project (of course you'll need to change the title).
1. Go to [testfirst.org's Learn Ruby section](http://testfirst.org/learn_ruby) ([Backup copy here](https://web.archive.org/web/20140328135623/http://testfirst.org/learn_ruby)) and follow the installation instructions.  Basically, you'll be either cloning their Github repository or downloading a zipped file containing all the test files (there are 15).  By opening the main `index.html` file in a browser, you'll have instructions waiting for you which describe what's going on, how to run the tests, and where to put your code so the tests can see it.  The exercises start easy but some of them can be pretty challenging, so good luck! **Update!** Testfirst.org appears to be down but you can download the problem sets from [this Github repository](https://github.com/alexch/learn_ruby) by running `git clone git://github.com/alexch/learn_ruby.git` if you have Git (we're still looking for a .zip file link alternative).  Open the `index.html` file in your local browser once you've downloaded it to receive instructions.  
**Important:** Test-First Ruby wasn't updated to use rspec 3.xx, so you need the last 2.xx version to work with it. More info [here](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/issues/860).
2. If you absolutely must use an in-browser environment (it would be better for you to do this on your own machine), one is available specifically for these exercises at [http://testfirst.org/live](http://testfirst.org/live). Note for Windows users: As of September 2014, the current version of Rspec is broken in Windows. If this is your first time using rspec (invoked with a different program here that comes with the gem, called Rake), when installing the gem, instead of "gem install rspec", type "gem install rspec -v 2.14.1" into terminal instead.
3. Do the following exercises.  You'll know you're done when all the tests pass!
    1. `00_hello`
    2. `01_temperature`
    3. `02_calculator`
    4. `03_simon_says`
    5. `04_pig_latin`
    6. `08_book_titles`
    7. `09_timer`
5. Push your project to Github

## Student Solutions

*Submit a link below to the github repo with your files in it by using a pull request.  See the section on [Contributing](http://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/blob/master/contributing.md) for how.  Please include your partner's github handle somewhere in the description if you had one and they would like attribution.*

* ["Official" Test-First Ruby solutions](https://github.com/ultrasaurus/test-first-teaching/tree/master/learn_ruby) (look for the "solutions" folder inside each exercise)
* [DucPhan's solution](https://github.com/phanducsjsu/Test-First-Ruby)
* [ErikHP's solution](https://github.com/ErikHP/test-first-ruby)
* [Afshinator's solution](https://github.com/afshinator/playground/tree/master/TestFirstRubyExercises)
* [Paul Dariye's solution](https://github.com/pauldd91/theodinproject/tree/master/learn_ruby)
* [Marina Sergeyeva's solution](https://github.com/imousterian/OdinProject/tree/master/Project1_3_Ruby/learn_ruby)
* [Sergey Prihodko's solution](https://github.com/sprihodko/odin-projects/tree/master/test-first-ruby)
* [Jamie's solution](https://github.com/Jberczel/odin-projects/tree/master/learn_ruby)
* [Angel Vargas' solution](https://github.com/arioth/the-odin-project/tree/master/learn_ruby)
* [Lamberto Diwa's solution](https://github.com/LambertoD/test_first_ruby)
* [Sahil Agarwal's solution](https://github.com/sahilda/the_odin_project/tree/master/testfirst_ruby)
* [Arman Ghassemi's solution](https://github.com/ArmanG/Test-First-Ruby)
* [Michael Ciocca's solution](https://github.com/Mciocca/TheOdinProject/tree/master/Ruby/respec/test_first)
* [d2bit's solution](https://github.com/d2bit/first_test_ruby)
* [Donald's solution](https://github.com/donaldali/odin-webdev101/tree/master/project_ruby)
* [Mazin's solution](https://github.com/muzfuz/CodeLessons/tree/master/RubyBasics)
* [Jason Ellis's solution](https://github.com/jason-ellis/test-first-ruby)
* [Stephanie's solution](https://github.com/Avonyel/ruby-testing)
* [Tommy Noe's solution](https://github.com/thomasjnoe/rspec-intro)
* [Lisa's solution](https://github.com/lisakstep/learn_ruby)
* [Michael Alexander's solution](https://github.com/betweenparentheses/test-first-ruby)
* [James MacIvor's solution](https://github.com/RobotOptimist/learn_ruby)
* [Julie's solution](https://github.com/delorenzo/test-first-ruby)
* [Dorian Iacobescu's solution](https://github.com/iacobson/Odin4-Ruby-TestFirst-Assignment)
* [John Quarles' solution](https://github.com/johnwquarles/test-first-Ruby)
* [Antonio Augusto's solution](https://github.com/antoniosb/test_first_ruby)
* [Jack Nguyen's solution](https://github.com/jnguyen85/test-first_ruby_solutions)
* [Scott Yu's solution](https://github.com/scootcho/the_odin_project/tree/master/ruby/learn_ruby)
* [Chris Dziewa's solution](https://github.com/chrisdziewa/test-ruby)
* [Asish Prabhakar's solution](https://github.com/akottal/ruby101-project)
* [Sami Bashraheel's solution](https://github.com/sami/test_first_ruby)
* [Drew Price's solution](https://github.com/drewprice/study/tree/master/odin-project/projects/learn_ruby/001_solutions)
* [Dominik Stodolny's solution](https://github.com/dstodolny/learn_ruby)
* [Kate McFaul's solution](https://github.com/craftykate/odin-project/tree/master/Chapter_02-Web_Development_101/test_first_ruby)
* [Eleanor Weigert's solution](https://github.com/mixophrygian/Test-First-Ruby)
* [Chasmani's solution](https://github.com/chasmani/Test_First_Ruby_Exercises)
* [Patrick Sullivan's solution](https://github.com/patsul12/odin-rspec)
* [Jason Matthews's solution](https://github.com/fo0man/learn_ruby)
* [Greg Park's solution](https://github.com/gregoryjpark/learn_ruby)
* [Rick Stewart's solution](https://github.com/rickstewart/Project_Ruby_Test_First)
* [Andrea Kulbaba's solution](https://github.com/akulbaba/test-first-ruby-solutions)
* [Chris Hall's solution](https://github.com/Concretechris/learn_ruby)
* [Jeremy Faith's solution](https://github.com/JeremyFaith/odin-projects/tree/master/learn_ruby)
* [Tommy Rodriguez's solution](https://github.com/trodrigu/odinproject/tree/master/learn_ruby)
* [Tamim Sookoor's solution](https://github.com/sookoor/learn_ruby)
* [Matias Pan's solution](https://github.com/kriox26/odin_project/tree/master/rubyproject)
* [Nick Leoutsakos's solution](https://github.com/nleoutsa/Ruby_TDD)
* [NYJY's solution](https://github.com/nyjy85/Ruby/tree/master/odin_project/test-first-ruby)
* [Psidium's solution](https://github.com/Psidium/ruby-exercises)
* [Andrej Dragojevic's solution](https://github.com/antrix1/The-Odin-Project/tree/master/Web%20Development%20101/ruby_testing)
* [Eddie's solution](https://github.com/feek1g/theodinproject/tree/master/rubyProjects)
* [omokoro's solution](https://github.com/omokoro/ruby_project)
* [Josh Klein's solution](https://github.com/kleinjoshuaa/testfirst_ruby)
* [Jeremy Mauzy's solution](https://github.com/apositivejam/the_odin_project/tree/master/Ruby_TDD_exercises)
* [Taylor Buchheit's solution](https://github.com/7aylor/learn_ruby)
* [Gb69010p's solution](https://github.com/gb69010p/learn_ruby)
* [Dan Hoying's solution](https://github.com/danhoying/learn_ruby)
* [Jason's solution](https://github.com/wellsj/learn_ruby)
* [Ricardo Villegas' solution](https://github.com/claricardo/Learn-Ruby)
* Add your solution above this line!


## Additional Resources

*This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something*


* [BetterSpecs.org](http://betterspecs.org/) contains detailed best practices for writing your own tests.  Overkill for this assignment, but potentially interesting for the future.
