javascript/async-apis/async-await.md, before:

### Introduction
Asynchronous code can become difficult to follow when it has a lot of things going on. `async` and `await` are two keywords that can help make asynchronous read more like synchronous code. This can help code look cleaner while keeping the benefits of asynchronous code.

For example, the two code blocks below do the exact same thing, they both get information from a server, process it, and return a promise.

~~~javascript
function getPersonsInfo(name) {
  return server.getPeople().then(people => {
    return people.find(person => { return person.name === name });
  });
}
~~~

~~~javascript
async function getPersonsInfo(name) {
  const people = await server.getPeople();
  const person = people.find(person => { return person.name === name });
  return person;
}
~~~

The second example looks much more like the kind of functions you are used to writing, however, did you notice the `async` keyword before the function declaration? How about the `await` keyword before `server.getPeople()`?

### Learning Outcomes
1. How do you declare an `async` function?
2. What does the `async` keyword do?
3. What does the `await` keyword do?
4. What is returned from an `async` function?
5. What happens when an error is thrown inside an `async` function?
6. How can you handle errors inside an `async` function?

### The async keyword
The `async` keyword is what lets the javascript engine know that you are declaring an asynchronous function, this is required to use `await` inside any function. When a function is declared with `async`, it automatically returns a promise, returning in an `async` function is the same as resolving a promise, likewise, throwing an error will reject the promise.

An important thing to understand is `async` functions are just syntactical sugar for `promises`.

The `async` keyword can also be used with any of the ways a function can be created, said differently: it is valid to use an `async` function anywhere you can use a normal function. Below you will see some examples that may not be intuitive, if you don't understand them, come back and take a look when you are done with the assignments.

~~~javascript
  const yourAsyncFunction = async () => {
    // do something asynchronously and return a promise
    return result;
  }
~~~

~~~javascript
 anArray.forEach(async item => {
   // do something asynchronously for each item in 'anArray'
   // one could also use .map here to return an array of promises to use with 'Promise.all()'
 });
~~~

~~~javascript
server.getPeople().then(async people => {
  people.forEach(person => {
    // do something asynchronously for each person
  });
});
~~~

### The await keyword
`await` is pretty simple: it tells javascript to wait for an asynchronous action to finish before continuing the function. It's like a 'pause until done' keyword. The `await` keyword is used to get a value from a function where you would normally use `.then()`. Instead of calling `.then()` after the asynchronous function, you would simply assign a variable to the result using `await`, then you can use the result in your code as you would in your synchronous code.

### Error Handling
Handling errors in `async` functions is very easy. Promises have the `.catch()` method for handling rejected promises, and since async functions just return a promise, you can simply call the function, and append a `.catch()` method to the end.

~~~javascript
asyncFunctionCall().catch(err => {
  console.error(err)
});
~~~

But there is another way: the mighty `try/catch` block! If you want to handle the error directly inside the `async` function, you can use `try/catch` just like you would inside synchronous code.

~~~javascript
async function getPersonsInfo(name) {
  try {
    const people = await server.getPeople();
    const person = people.find(person => { return person.name === name });
    return person;
  } catch (error) {
    // Handle the error any way you'd like
  }
}
~~~

Doing this can look messy, but it is a very easy way to handle errors without appending `.catch()` after your function calls. How you handle the errors is up to you, and which method you use should be determined by how your code was written. You will get a feel for what needs to be done over time. The assignments will also help you understand how to handle your errors.

### Practice
Remember the Giphy API practice project? (If not, you should go back and complete the API lesson) We are going to convert the promise based code into `async/await` compatible code. Here's a refresher of the code we are starting with:

~~~javascript
<script>
  const img = document.querySelector('img');
  fetch('https://api.giphy.com/v1/gifs/translate?api_key=YOUR_KEY_HERE&s=cats', {mode: 'cors'})
    .then(function(response) {
      return response.json();
    })
    .then(function(response) {
      img.src = response.data.images.original.url;
    });
</script>
~~~

Since `await` does not work on the global scope, we will have to create an `async` function that wraps our API call to Giphy.

~~~javascript
<script>
  const img = document.querySelector('img');

  async function getCats() {
    fetch('https://api.giphy.com/v1/gifs/translate?api_key=YOUR_KEY_HERE&s=cats', {mode: 'cors'})
      .then(function(response) {
        return response.json();
      })
      .then(function(response) {
        img.src = response.data.images.original.url;
      })
  }
</script>
~~~

Now that we have a function that is asynchronous, we can then start refactoring from using promises to using `await`:

~~~javascript
<script>
  const img = document.querySelector('img');

  async function getCats() {
    const response = await fetch('https://api.giphy.com/v1/gifs/translate?api_key=YOUR_KEY_HERE&s=cats', {mode: 'cors'});
    response.json().then(function(response) {
      img.src = response.data.images.original.url;
    });
  }
</script>
~~~

Since `response` is still the same object we have passed to the `.then()` block at the start, we still need to use the `.json()` method, which in turn returns a promise. Because `.json()` returns a promise, we can use `await` to assign the response to a variable.

~~~javascript
<script>
  const img = document.querySelector('img');

  async function getCats() {
    const response = await fetch('https://api.giphy.com/v1/gifs/translate?api_key=YOUR_KEY_HERE&s=cats', {mode: 'cors'});
    const catData = await response.json();
    img.src = catData.data.images.original.url;
  }
</script>
~~~

To use this function, we just simply need to call it with `getCats()` in our code.

~~~javascript
<script>
  const img = document.querySelector('img');

  async function getCats() {
    const response = await fetch('https://api.giphy.com/v1/gifs/translate?api_key=YOUR_KEY_HERE&s=cats', {mode: 'cors'});
    const catData = await response.json();
    img.src = catData.data.images.original.url;
  }
  getCats();
</script>
~~~

This code will behave exactly like the code from the last lesson, it just looks a bit different after refactoring. `async/await` are very useful tools when it comes to cleaning up asynchronous javascript code. It is important to remember `async/await` are just promises written in a different way. Do the assignments below, and dive deeper into the understanding of `async/await`.

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">
1. Read [this article](https://javascript.info/async-await) for a solid introduction to async/await. [this article](https://codeburst.io/javascript-es-2017-learn-async-await-by-example-48acc58bad65) also has some good examples of its use.
2. Read [this article](https://pouchdb.com/2015/03/05/taming-the-async-beast-with-es7.html) for a more in-depth look at async/await, including how to handle errors.
3. Watch [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9YkUCxvaLEk) for a good overview on async/await and it's purpose, along with a special trick.
</div>

### Additional Resources
1. [This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=COKdtOgopWQ) is an example of how you can change callbacks, to promises, to async/await.
2. [This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vn3tm0quoqE) gives a comprehensive view of Promises, async, and await.

Commit message:

reformatted learning outcomes, added knowledge checks and associated links

javascript/async-apis/async-await.md, after:

### Introduction
Asynchronous code can become difficult to follow when it has a lot of things going on. `async` and `await` are two keywords that can help make asynchronous read more like synchronous code. This can help code look cleaner while keeping the benefits of asynchronous code.

For example, the two code blocks below do the exact same thing, they both get information from a server, process it, and return a promise.

~~~javascript
function getPersonsInfo(name) {
  return server.getPeople().then(people => {
    return people.find(person => { return person.name === name });
  });
}
~~~

~~~javascript
async function getPersonsInfo(name) {
  const people = await server.getPeople();
  const person = people.find(person => { return person.name === name });
  return person;
}
~~~

The second example looks much more like the kind of functions you are used to writing, however, did you notice the `async` keyword before the function declaration? How about the `await` keyword before `server.getPeople()`?

### Learning Outcomes
By the end of this lesson, you should be able to:

 - Explain how you declare an `async` function
 - Explain what the `async` keyword does
 - Explain what the `await` keyword does
 - Explain what an `async` function returns
 - Explain what happens when an error is thrown inside an `async` function
 - Explain how you can handle errors inside an `async` function

### The async keyword
The `async` keyword is what lets the javascript engine know that you are declaring an asynchronous function, this is required to use `await` inside any function. When a function is declared with `async`, it automatically returns a promise, returning in an `async` function is the same as resolving a promise, likewise, throwing an error will reject the promise.

An important thing to understand is `async` functions are just syntactical sugar for `promises`.

The `async` keyword can also be used with any of the ways a function can be created, said differently: it is valid to use an `async` function anywhere you can use a normal function. Below you will see some examples that may not be intuitive, if you don't understand them, come back and take a look when you are done with the assignments.

~~~javascript
  const yourAsyncFunction = async () => {
    // do something asynchronously and return a promise
    return result;
  }
~~~

~~~javascript
 anArray.forEach(async item => {
   // do something asynchronously for each item in 'anArray'
   // one could also use .map here to return an array of promises to use with 'Promise.all()'
 });
~~~

~~~javascript
server.getPeople().then(async people => {
  people.forEach(person => {
    // do something asynchronously for each person
  });
});
~~~

### The await keyword
`await` is pretty simple: it tells javascript to wait for an asynchronous action to finish before continuing the function. It's like a 'pause until done' keyword. The `await` keyword is used to get a value from a function where you would normally use `.then()`. Instead of calling `.then()` after the asynchronous function, you would simply assign a variable to the result using `await`, then you can use the result in your code as you would in your synchronous code.

### Error Handling
Handling errors in `async` functions is very easy. Promises have the `.catch()` method for handling rejected promises, and since async functions just return a promise, you can simply call the function, and append a `.catch()` method to the end.

~~~javascript
asyncFunctionCall().catch(err => {
  console.error(err)
});
~~~

But there is another way: the mighty `try/catch` block! If you want to handle the error directly inside the `async` function, you can use `try/catch` just like you would inside synchronous code.

~~~javascript
async function getPersonsInfo(name) {
  try {
    const people = await server.getPeople();
    const person = people.find(person => { return person.name === name });
    return person;
  } catch (error) {
    // Handle the error any way you'd like
  }
}
~~~

Doing this can look messy, but it is a very easy way to handle errors without appending `.catch()` after your function calls. How you handle the errors is up to you, and which method you use should be determined by how your code was written. You will get a feel for what needs to be done over time. The assignments will also help you understand how to handle your errors.

### Practice
Remember the Giphy API practice project? (If not, you should go back and complete the API lesson) We are going to convert the promise based code into `async/await` compatible code. Here's a refresher of the code we are starting with:

~~~javascript
<script>
  const img = document.querySelector('img');
  fetch('https://api.giphy.com/v1/gifs/translate?api_key=YOUR_KEY_HERE&s=cats', {mode: 'cors'})
    .then(function(response) {
      return response.json();
    })
    .then(function(response) {
      img.src = response.data.images.original.url;
    });
</script>
~~~

Since `await` does not work on the global scope, we will have to create an `async` function that wraps our API call to Giphy.

~~~javascript
<script>
  const img = document.querySelector('img');

  async function getCats() {
    fetch('https://api.giphy.com/v1/gifs/translate?api_key=YOUR_KEY_HERE&s=cats', {mode: 'cors'})
      .then(function(response) {
        return response.json();
      })
      .then(function(response) {
        img.src = response.data.images.original.url;
      })
  }
</script>
~~~

Now that we have a function that is asynchronous, we can then start refactoring from using promises to using `await`:

~~~javascript
<script>
  const img = document.querySelector('img');

  async function getCats() {
    const response = await fetch('https://api.giphy.com/v1/gifs/translate?api_key=YOUR_KEY_HERE&s=cats', {mode: 'cors'});
    response.json().then(function(response) {
      img.src = response.data.images.original.url;
    });
  }
</script>
~~~

Since `response` is still the same object we have passed to the `.then()` block at the start, we still need to use the `.json()` method, which in turn returns a promise. Because `.json()` returns a promise, we can use `await` to assign the response to a variable.

~~~javascript
<script>
  const img = document.querySelector('img');

  async function getCats() {
    const response = await fetch('https://api.giphy.com/v1/gifs/translate?api_key=YOUR_KEY_HERE&s=cats', {mode: 'cors'});
    const catData = await response.json();
    img.src = catData.data.images.original.url;
  }
</script>
~~~

To use this function, we just simply need to call it with `getCats()` in our code.

~~~javascript
<script>
  const img = document.querySelector('img');

  async function getCats() {
    const response = await fetch('https://api.giphy.com/v1/gifs/translate?api_key=YOUR_KEY_HERE&s=cats', {mode: 'cors'});
    const catData = await response.json();
    img.src = catData.data.images.original.url;
  }
  getCats();
</script>
~~~

This code will behave exactly like the code from the last lesson, it just looks a bit different after refactoring. `async/await` are very useful tools when it comes to cleaning up asynchronous javascript code. It is important to remember `async/await` are just promises written in a different way. Do the assignments below, and dive deeper into the understanding of `async/await`.

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">
1. Read [this article](https://javascript.info/async-await) for a solid introduction to async/await. [this article](https://codeburst.io/javascript-es-2017-learn-async-await-by-example-48acc58bad65) also has some good examples of its use.
2. Read [this article](https://pouchdb.com/2015/03/05/taming-the-async-beast-with-es7.html) for a more in-depth look at async/await, including how to handle errors.
3. Watch [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9YkUCxvaLEk) for a good overview on async/await and it's purpose, along with a special trick.
</div>

### Additional Resources
1. [This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=COKdtOgopWQ) is an example of how you can change callbacks, to promises, to async/await.
2. [This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vn3tm0quoqE) gives a comprehensive view of Promises, async, and await.


### Knowledge Check

 - [How do you declare an `async` function?](#the-async-keyword)
 - [What does the `async` keyword do?](#the-async-keyword)
 - [What does the `await` keyword do?](#the-await-keyword)
 - [What is returned from an `async` function?](https://javascript.info/async-await#summary)
 - [What happens when an error is thrown inside an `async` function?](https://javascript.info/async-await#error-handling)
 - [How can you handle errors inside an `async` function?](https://javascript.info/async-await#error-handling)
