html_css/css_flexbox.md, before:

### Introduction

The Flexible Box Module, usually referred to as flexbox, was designed as a one-dimensional layout model, and as a method that 
could offer space distribution between items in an interface and powerful alignment capabilities. This article gives an outline
of the main features of flexbox, which we will be exploring in more detail in the rest of these guides.

In this section, you'll get a look at how to use CSS Flex Box to make your page responsive without using media querries.

### Learning Outcomes
* What is CSS flex?
* Why are flex effective for helping site layout?
* What are the major different types of flex in use today?
* How could you design your own website using flex?
* How to use flex-box?

### Assignment
<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">
1. Complete this game based tutorial for learning the [Basics of Flexible Box](https://flexboxfroggy.com/).
2. Learn the modern CSS layouts from [this tutorial](https://internetingishard.com/html-and-css/flexbox/).</div>

Commit message:

Added some more links and text

html_css/css_flexbox.md, after:

### Introduction

The Flexible Box Module, usually referred to as flexbox, was designed as a one-dimensional layout model, and as a method that 
could offer space distribution between items in an interface and powerful alignment capabilities. This article gives an outline
of the main features of flexbox, which we will be exploring in more detail in the rest of these guides.

In this section, you'll get a look at how to use CSS Flex Box to make your projects more awesome!.

### Learning Outcomes
* What is CSS flex?
* Why are flex effective for helping site layout?
* What are the major different types of flex in use today?
* How could you design your own website using flex?
* How to use flex-box?

### Assignment
<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">
1. Complete this game based tutorial for learning the [Basics of Flexible Box](https://flexboxfroggy.com/).
2. Learn the modern CSS layouts from [this tutorial](https://internetingishard.com/html-and-css/flexbox/).
3.Before we begin, it’s important for you to be familiar with basic [HTML](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/html5-and-css3/lessons/html5-basics) and [CSS](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/html5-and-css3/lessons/css3-basics). It would also be helpful to know a CSS Framework like Bootstrap. It would help you get the most from here
</div>

### Additional Resources
This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something.

* [Flex Box Tutorial From SitePoint](https://www.sitepoint.com/flexbox-css-flexible-box-layout/).
* [A Complete Guide to CSS Flexible Box From CSS tricks](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/)
