html_css/project_positioning.md, before:

### Introduction

The New York Times has been a leader in experimenting with the inclusion of multimedia content in traditional stories.  That creates all kinds of interesting position questions.

In this project, your assignment is to copy [this article from the New York Times](http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/18/science/space/detection-of-waves-in-space-buttresses-landmark-theory-of-big-bang.html?_r=0)(open in an "incognito" window without cookies to view it if you're over your monthly limit).  Notice how the section titled "The Theory of Inflation" (you may need to widen your viewing window for it to show up) is laid out.

### Assignment
Note: As usual, ignore any ads, comments or interactive elements (which use Javascript) and don't worry about what happens when you change the page width (they use some media queries to rearrange things).  Focus on making it look similar.

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">
1. Go to [the NYT article in question](http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/18/science/space/detection-of-waves-in-space-buttresses-landmark-theory-of-big-bang.html?_r=0) and have a look around.
2. Follow the instructions atop the [Google Homepage project](/courses/web-development-101/lessons/html-css) to set up a Github repository for this project (of course you'll need to change the title).
3. Create a new HTML document.
4. Think about all the elements on the page and how they are grouped together.
5. Lay out the basic structure of the page using empty semantic HTML elements that are appropriately sized and positioned.  You may want to make their background colors different so you can see them.  Don't forget to use your browser's developer tools (right click on the page, click "inspect element")!
6. Set up the top navigation bar (again, don't worry about making it change when you scroll down the page).  How can you get it to stick to the top of the page as you scroll down?
7. Fill in and position the additional sections.  Don't worry about enclosing every paragraph of text in `<p>` tags.
8. Push your solution to Github.
</div>

### Student Solutions
Send us your solution so we can show others! Submit a link to the Github repo with your files in it by using any of the methods listed on the [contributing page](http://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/blob/master/contributing.md).  See the [Google Homepage project](/courses/web-development-101/lessons/html-css) for examples.

* Add your solution below this line!
* [Yakherder's solution](https://github.com/yakherder614/NYT-clone) - [View In Browser](https://yakherder614.github.io/NYT-clone/)
* [SarfrazAnjum's solution](https://github.com/SarfrazAnjum/TOP_Positioning-and-Floating-Elements) - [View In Browser](https://sarfrazanjum.github.io/TOP_Positioning-and-Floating-Elements/)
* [nmac's solution](https://github.com/nmacawile/new-york-times-layout) - [Preview](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/nmacawile/new-york-times-layout/blob/master/index.html)
* [Henry Kirya's solution](https://github.com/harrika/nyt) - [View in Browser](https://harrika.github.io/nyt/)
* [walnutdust's solution](https://github.com/walnutdust/new-york-times) - [View in Browser](https://walnutdust.github.io/new-york-times/)
* [theghall's solution](https://github.com/theghall/odin-nyt) - [View in Browser](https://theghall.github.io/odin-nyt/)
* [Jmooree30's solution](https://github.com/jmooree30/new-york-times) - [View in Browser](https://jmooree30.github.io/new-york-times/)
* [Jonathan Yiv's solution](https://github.com/JonathanYiv/nytimes-article-page) - [View in Browser](https://jonathanyiv.github.io/nytimes-article-page/)
* [holdercp's solution](https://github.com/holdercp/nyt-layout) - [View in Browser](https://holdercp.github.io/nyt-layout/)
* [yilmazgunalp's Solution](https://github.com/yilmazgunalp/nyt) - [View in Browser](https://yilmazgunalp.github.io/nyt/)
* [Jeff's Solution](https://github.com/jmbothe/nyt-article) - [View in Browser](https://jmbothe.github.io/nyt-article/)
* [Andrew's solution](https://github.com/andrewr224/ny_times) - [View in browser](https://andrewr224.github.io/ny_times/)
* [Axel’s solution](https://github.com/afuh/new-york-times) - [View in browser](https://afuh.github.io/new-york-times/)
* [Jan Pilik's solution](https://github.com/Vjii/new_york_times_project) - [View in browser](https://vjii.github.io/new_york_times_project/)
* [Rhys B's solution](https://github.com/105ron/nyt-article) - [View in browser](https://105ron.github.io/nyt-article/)
* [Pawel R's solution](https://github.com/PawelRokosz/PositioningElements) - [View in browser](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/PawelRokosz/PositioningElements/blob/master/index.html)
* [Shouvik Roy's solution](https://github.com/royshouvik/newyorktimes) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/royshouvik/newyorktimes/blob/master/index.html)
* [Meher Chandan's solution](https://github.com/meherchandan/NewYorkTimes) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/meherchandan/NewYorkTimes/blob/master/index.html)
* [Artur Janik's solution](https://github.com/ArturJanik/ProjectNYT) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/ArturJanik/ProjectNYT/blob/master/index2.html)
* [Ryan Jordan's solution](https://github.com/krjordan/odin-project/tree/master/nyt-project) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/krjordan/odin-project/tree/master/nyt-project/index.html)
* [Frank Peelen's solution](https://github.com/FrankPeelen/New-York-Times-CSS) - [View in browser](https://rawgit.com/FrankPeelen/New-York-Times-CSS/master/detection-of-waves-in-space-buttresses-landmark-theory-of-big-bang.html)
* [AyeSea's solution](https://github.com/AyeSea/nytimes-css) - [View in browser](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/AyeSea/nytimes-css/blob/master/index.html)
* [Dominik Stodolny's solution](https://github.com/dstodolny/nyt-article) - [View in browser](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/dstodolny/nyt-article/blob/master/index.html)
* [AtActionPark's solution](https://github.com/AtActionPark/odin_positioning_and_floating_elements) - [View in browser](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/AtActionPark/odin_positioning_and_floating_elements/blob/master/main.html)
* [Voreny's Solution](https://github.com/Gelio/nyt-news-layout) - [View in browser](http://gelio.github.io/nyt-news-layout/)
* [Dusan Milosavljevic's Solution](https://github.com/dusanmilosavljevic1624/Project-Positioning-Elements-) - [View in browser](http://dusanmilosavljevic1624.github.io/Project-Positioning-Elements-/)
* [Noman Karim's Solution](https://github.com/nomankarim/newyorktimes) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/nomankarim/newyorktimes/blob/master/index.html)
* [Patrick Mallee's Solution](https://github.com/patmallee/nytimes) - [view in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/patmallee/nytimes/blob/master/index.html)
* [Cameron Kelley's Solution](https://github.com/cameronjkelley/the_odin_project/tree/master/html5_css3/ny-times) - [view in browser](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/cameronjkelley/the_odin_project/blob/master/html5_css3/ny-times/index.html)
* [Luke Walker's Solution](https://github.com/ubershibs/odin-html-css/tree/master/nytimes) - [View in browser](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/ubershibs/odin-html-css/blob/master/nytimes/index.html)
* [Miguel Herrera's solution](https://github.com/migueloherrera/nytimes) - [View in Browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/migueloherrera/nytimes/blob/master/index.html)
* [srashidi's solution](https://github.com/srashidi/The_Odin_Project/tree/master/HTML5%20and%20CSS3/Positioning_Elements/nyt-article) - [View in Browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/srashidi/The_Odin_Project/blob/master/HTML5%20and%20CSS3/Positioning_Elements/nyt-article/article.html)
* [J-kaizen's solution](https://github.com/J-kaizen/TheOdinProject/tree/master/HTML_CSS/positioning_elements) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/J-kaizen/TheOdinProject/blob/master/HTML_CSS/positioning_elements/index.html)
* [csrail's solution](https://github.com/csrail/nytimes-mock) - [View in browser](https://rawgit.com/csrail/nytimes-mock/master/article.html)
* [Shala Qweghen's solution](https://github.com/ShalaQweghen/nyt-clone) - [View in browser](https://rawgit.com/ShalaQweghen/nyt-clone/master/index.html)
* [David Chapman's solution](https://github.com/davidchappy/odin_training_projects/tree/master/html-positioning-elements) - [View in browser](https://davidchappy.github.io/ny-times-html/)
* [Charles Harries's solution](https://github.com/charlesharries/new_york_times) - [Check it in browser](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/charlesharries/new_york_times/blob/master/index.html)
* [Flint Mayers's solution](https://github.com/FlintMayers/The_New_York_Times_project) - [Check it in browser](https://flintmayers.github.io/The_New_York_Times_project/)
* [Sophia Wu's solution](https://github.com/SophiaLWu) - [View in browser](https://sophialwu.github.io/NY-times-article-clone/)
* [Daunenok's solution](https://github.com/daunenok/new-york) - [View in browser](https://daunenok.github.io/new-york/)
* [Austin's solution](https://github.com/CouchofTomato/ny-times-clone)
* [Adonias Dantas's solution](https://github.com/adoniasdantas/ny-article) - [View in browser](https://adoniasdantas.github.io/ny-article/)
* [Beth Rathbone's solution](https://github.com/bethrath/ny-times-article) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/bethrath/ny-times-article/blob/master/index.html)
* [Husein's solution](https://github.com/hosghf/new-york-times-articl-html-css) - [View in browser](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/hosghf/new-york-times-articl-html-css/blob/master/index.html)
* [Paul McGarry's solution](https://github.com/thiswillhavetodo/nyt-article) - [View in browser](https://thiswillhavetodo.github.io/nyt-article/)
* [DV's solution](https://github.com/dvislearning/odin-nyt-article) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/dvislearning/odin-nyt-article/blob/master/detection-of-waves-in-space-buttresses-landmark-theory-of-big-bang.html)
* [Francisco Carlos's solution](https://github.com/fcarlosdev/the_odin_project/tree/master/nyt-project) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/fcarlosdev/the_odin_project/blob/master/nyt-project/index.html)

### Additional Resources
This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something.

* Add some!

Commit message:

change positioning project to state any of the positioning techniques can be used

html_css/project_positioning.md, after:

### Introduction

The New York Times has been a leader in experimenting with the inclusion of multimedia content in traditional stories.  That creates all kinds of interesting position questions.

In this project, your assignment is to copy [this article from the New York Times](http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/18/science/space/detection-of-waves-in-space-buttresses-landmark-theory-of-big-bang.html?_r=0)(open in an "incognito" window without cookies to view it if you're over your monthly limit).  Notice how the section titled "The Theory of Inflation" (you may need to widen your viewing window for it to show up) is laid out.

You can use any or all of the positioning techniques you've learned in this section. The modern way would be to use Flexbox or Grid but it's perfectly fine if you want to float or use positioning for some or all of the project.

### Assignment
Note: As usual, ignore any ads, comments or interactive elements (which use Javascript) and don't worry about what happens when you change the page width (they use some media queries to rearrange things).  Focus on making it look similar.

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">
1. Go to [the NYT article in question](http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/18/science/space/detection-of-waves-in-space-buttresses-landmark-theory-of-big-bang.html?_r=0) and have a look around.
2. Follow the instructions atop the [Google Homepage project](/courses/web-development-101/lessons/html-css) to set up a Github repository for this project (of course you'll need to change the title).
3. Create a new HTML document.
4. Think about all the elements on the page and how they are grouped together.
5. Lay out the basic structure of the page using empty semantic HTML elements that are appropriately sized and positioned.  You may want to make their background colors different so you can see them.  Don't forget to use your browser's developer tools (right click on the page, click "inspect element")!
6. Set up the top navigation bar (again, don't worry about making it change when you scroll down the page).  How can you get it to stick to the top of the page as you scroll down?
7. Fill in and position the additional sections.  Don't worry about enclosing every paragraph of text in `<p>` tags.
8. Push your solution to Github.
</div>

### Student Solutions
Send us your solution so we can show others! Submit a link to the Github repo with your files in it by using any of the methods listed on the [contributing page](http://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/blob/master/contributing.md).  See the [Google Homepage project](/courses/web-development-101/lessons/html-css) for examples.

* Add your solution below this line!
* [Yakherder's solution](https://github.com/yakherder614/NYT-clone) - [View In Browser](https://yakherder614.github.io/NYT-clone/)
* [SarfrazAnjum's solution](https://github.com/SarfrazAnjum/TOP_Positioning-and-Floating-Elements) - [View In Browser](https://sarfrazanjum.github.io/TOP_Positioning-and-Floating-Elements/)
* [nmac's solution](https://github.com/nmacawile/new-york-times-layout) - [Preview](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/nmacawile/new-york-times-layout/blob/master/index.html)
* [Henry Kirya's solution](https://github.com/harrika/nyt) - [View in Browser](https://harrika.github.io/nyt/)
* [walnutdust's solution](https://github.com/walnutdust/new-york-times) - [View in Browser](https://walnutdust.github.io/new-york-times/)
* [theghall's solution](https://github.com/theghall/odin-nyt) - [View in Browser](https://theghall.github.io/odin-nyt/)
* [Jmooree30's solution](https://github.com/jmooree30/new-york-times) - [View in Browser](https://jmooree30.github.io/new-york-times/)
* [Jonathan Yiv's solution](https://github.com/JonathanYiv/nytimes-article-page) - [View in Browser](https://jonathanyiv.github.io/nytimes-article-page/)
* [holdercp's solution](https://github.com/holdercp/nyt-layout) - [View in Browser](https://holdercp.github.io/nyt-layout/)
* [yilmazgunalp's Solution](https://github.com/yilmazgunalp/nyt) - [View in Browser](https://yilmazgunalp.github.io/nyt/)
* [Jeff's Solution](https://github.com/jmbothe/nyt-article) - [View in Browser](https://jmbothe.github.io/nyt-article/)
* [Andrew's solution](https://github.com/andrewr224/ny_times) - [View in browser](https://andrewr224.github.io/ny_times/)
* [Axel’s solution](https://github.com/afuh/new-york-times) - [View in browser](https://afuh.github.io/new-york-times/)
* [Jan Pilik's solution](https://github.com/Vjii/new_york_times_project) - [View in browser](https://vjii.github.io/new_york_times_project/)
* [Rhys B's solution](https://github.com/105ron/nyt-article) - [View in browser](https://105ron.github.io/nyt-article/)
* [Pawel R's solution](https://github.com/PawelRokosz/PositioningElements) - [View in browser](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/PawelRokosz/PositioningElements/blob/master/index.html)
* [Shouvik Roy's solution](https://github.com/royshouvik/newyorktimes) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/royshouvik/newyorktimes/blob/master/index.html)
* [Meher Chandan's solution](https://github.com/meherchandan/NewYorkTimes) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/meherchandan/NewYorkTimes/blob/master/index.html)
* [Artur Janik's solution](https://github.com/ArturJanik/ProjectNYT) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/ArturJanik/ProjectNYT/blob/master/index2.html)
* [Ryan Jordan's solution](https://github.com/krjordan/odin-project/tree/master/nyt-project) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/krjordan/odin-project/tree/master/nyt-project/index.html)
* [Frank Peelen's solution](https://github.com/FrankPeelen/New-York-Times-CSS) - [View in browser](https://rawgit.com/FrankPeelen/New-York-Times-CSS/master/detection-of-waves-in-space-buttresses-landmark-theory-of-big-bang.html)
* [AyeSea's solution](https://github.com/AyeSea/nytimes-css) - [View in browser](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/AyeSea/nytimes-css/blob/master/index.html)
* [Dominik Stodolny's solution](https://github.com/dstodolny/nyt-article) - [View in browser](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/dstodolny/nyt-article/blob/master/index.html)
* [AtActionPark's solution](https://github.com/AtActionPark/odin_positioning_and_floating_elements) - [View in browser](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/AtActionPark/odin_positioning_and_floating_elements/blob/master/main.html)
* [Voreny's Solution](https://github.com/Gelio/nyt-news-layout) - [View in browser](http://gelio.github.io/nyt-news-layout/)
* [Dusan Milosavljevic's Solution](https://github.com/dusanmilosavljevic1624/Project-Positioning-Elements-) - [View in browser](http://dusanmilosavljevic1624.github.io/Project-Positioning-Elements-/)
* [Noman Karim's Solution](https://github.com/nomankarim/newyorktimes) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/nomankarim/newyorktimes/blob/master/index.html)
* [Patrick Mallee's Solution](https://github.com/patmallee/nytimes) - [view in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/patmallee/nytimes/blob/master/index.html)
* [Cameron Kelley's Solution](https://github.com/cameronjkelley/the_odin_project/tree/master/html5_css3/ny-times) - [view in browser](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/cameronjkelley/the_odin_project/blob/master/html5_css3/ny-times/index.html)
* [Luke Walker's Solution](https://github.com/ubershibs/odin-html-css/tree/master/nytimes) - [View in browser](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/ubershibs/odin-html-css/blob/master/nytimes/index.html)
* [Miguel Herrera's solution](https://github.com/migueloherrera/nytimes) - [View in Browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/migueloherrera/nytimes/blob/master/index.html)
* [srashidi's solution](https://github.com/srashidi/The_Odin_Project/tree/master/HTML5%20and%20CSS3/Positioning_Elements/nyt-article) - [View in Browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/srashidi/The_Odin_Project/blob/master/HTML5%20and%20CSS3/Positioning_Elements/nyt-article/article.html)
* [J-kaizen's solution](https://github.com/J-kaizen/TheOdinProject/tree/master/HTML_CSS/positioning_elements) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/J-kaizen/TheOdinProject/blob/master/HTML_CSS/positioning_elements/index.html)
* [csrail's solution](https://github.com/csrail/nytimes-mock) - [View in browser](https://rawgit.com/csrail/nytimes-mock/master/article.html)
* [Shala Qweghen's solution](https://github.com/ShalaQweghen/nyt-clone) - [View in browser](https://rawgit.com/ShalaQweghen/nyt-clone/master/index.html)
* [David Chapman's solution](https://github.com/davidchappy/odin_training_projects/tree/master/html-positioning-elements) - [View in browser](https://davidchappy.github.io/ny-times-html/)
* [Charles Harries's solution](https://github.com/charlesharries/new_york_times) - [Check it in browser](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/charlesharries/new_york_times/blob/master/index.html)
* [Flint Mayers's solution](https://github.com/FlintMayers/The_New_York_Times_project) - [Check it in browser](https://flintmayers.github.io/The_New_York_Times_project/)
* [Sophia Wu's solution](https://github.com/SophiaLWu) - [View in browser](https://sophialwu.github.io/NY-times-article-clone/)
* [Daunenok's solution](https://github.com/daunenok/new-york) - [View in browser](https://daunenok.github.io/new-york/)
* [Austin's solution](https://github.com/CouchofTomato/ny-times-clone)
* [Adonias Dantas's solution](https://github.com/adoniasdantas/ny-article) - [View in browser](https://adoniasdantas.github.io/ny-article/)
* [Beth Rathbone's solution](https://github.com/bethrath/ny-times-article) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/bethrath/ny-times-article/blob/master/index.html)
* [Husein's solution](https://github.com/hosghf/new-york-times-articl-html-css) - [View in browser](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/hosghf/new-york-times-articl-html-css/blob/master/index.html)
* [Paul McGarry's solution](https://github.com/thiswillhavetodo/nyt-article) - [View in browser](https://thiswillhavetodo.github.io/nyt-article/)
* [DV's solution](https://github.com/dvislearning/odin-nyt-article) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/dvislearning/odin-nyt-article/blob/master/detection-of-waves-in-space-buttresses-landmark-theory-of-big-bang.html)
* [Francisco Carlos's solution](https://github.com/fcarlosdev/the_odin_project/tree/master/nyt-project) - [View in browser](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/fcarlosdev/the_odin_project/blob/master/nyt-project/index.html)

### Additional Resources
This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something.

* Add some!
