nodeJS/getting-started/debugging-node.md, before:

Up until this point, you've likely only relied on the browser's DevTools to debug your code. <span id="two-ways">When it comes to debugging Node and server side code, VS Code has a handy built-in debugger that you can use to debug directly in your editor! Additionally, you can also set Google Chrome up to debug Node and get the full benefits of the Chrome DevTools. </span> Ultimately, this lesson will familiarize you with the Node debugger, which is a critical tool at this point in your learning, and will likely be a key tool you use daily in your professional life.

### Learning Outcomes

By the end of this lesson, you should be able to do the following:

- Use the VS Code built-in Node debugger
- Use the Chrome DevTools to debug Node

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">

- Check out the official [VS Code Node debugger documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/nodejs/nodejs-debugging). Take note of the Javascript Debug Terminal- this is an easy way to get the debugger running!
- Read [this article](https://www.section.io/engineering-education/debug-node-devtools/) for a tutorial on how to debug Node with Chrome. NOTE: You can ignore anything that refers to debugging remote apps- you'll be debugging local apps.
- Watch [this video tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2oFKNL7vYV8&ab_channel=VisualStudioCode) to see the process in action
</div>

### Knowledge Check

- <a href="#two-ways">What are two ways to debug Node in VS Code?</a>

Commit message:

Added knowledge check lines and changed class for link- Debugging Node - Nodejs
Added knowledge check lines and changed class for the link in topic debugging Node from Nodejs.
We are trying to make the text consistent throughout the curriculum.

nodeJS/getting-started/debugging-node.md, after:

Up until this point, you've likely only relied on the browser's DevTools to debug your code. <span id="two-ways">When it comes to debugging Node and server side code, VS Code has a handy built-in debugger that you can use to debug directly in your editor! Additionally, you can also set Google Chrome up to debug Node and get the full benefits of the Chrome DevTools. </span> Ultimately, this lesson will familiarize you with the Node debugger, which is a critical tool at this point in your learning, and will likely be a key tool you use daily in your professional life.

### Learning Outcomes

By the end of this lesson, you should be able to do the following:

- Use the VS Code built-in Node debugger
- Use the Chrome DevTools to debug Node

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">

- Check out the official [VS Code Node debugger documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/nodejs/nodejs-debugging). Take note of the Javascript Debug Terminal- this is an easy way to get the debugger running!
- Read [this article](https://www.section.io/engineering-education/debug-node-devtools/) for a tutorial on how to debug Node with Chrome. NOTE: You can ignore anything that refers to debugging remote apps- you'll be debugging local apps.
- Watch [this video tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2oFKNL7vYV8&ab_channel=VisualStudioCode) to see the process in action
</div>

### Knowledge Check

This section contains questions for you to check your understanding of this lesson. If you're having trouble answering the questions below on your own, review the material above to find the answer.

- <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="#two-ways">What are two ways to debug Node in VS Code?</a>
