nodeJS/getting-started/Getting-Started.md, before:

Like we learned in the introduction lesson, Node.js is really just JavaScript. So a basic understanding of JavaScript is necessary in order to understand Node. For this reason, it is highly recommended that you take our prerequisite [JavaScript course](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/javascript) before continuing with this course.

This lesson will take you through a tutorial that will teach you the basic modules and functions that you need to get up and running with Node.js. The project that comes right after this assignment will ask you to use Node to create a basic website that will include an `Index`, `About` and `Contact Me` page. So while learning the topics in this lesson, be on the lookout for things that might help you complete the project.

### Learning Outcomes
By the end of this lesson, you should be able to do the following:

 - Explain some things that Node.js is commonly used for.
 - Create and use modules in Node.js (both built-in and user created). 
 - Set up a basic webserver with Node.js using the HTTP module.
 - Read, create, update, and delete files from Node.js.
 - Use the URL module to parse a url address and split it into readable parts.
 - Understand how to use NPM.
 - Create, fire and listen for your own events.

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">

- Let's dive in and write your first bit of Node server-side code!  Go to the [w3 schools node tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/nodejs/default.asp) and code along with the following lessons (which should be listed on the sidebar of their site):
  - Node.js Intro
  - Node.js Get Started
  - Node.js Modules
  - Node.js HTTP Module
  - Node.js File System
  - Node.js URL Module
  - Node.js NPM
  - Node.js Events
  - The File Uploads and Email lessons are optional at this point but it might be useful to at least skim them so you can know where to look if you need that functionality.
</div>

### Knowledge Check
This section contains questions for you to check your understanding of this lesson. If you're having trouble answering the questions below on your own, clicking the small arrow to the left of the question will reveal the answers.

<details>
<summary>What is a File System Module? How and why would you use it?</summary>
<ul><ul>
  <li>The Node.js file system module allows you to work with the file system in your computer. It's included by using the require() method and can be used to read, create, update, delete, and rename files.</li>
</ul></ul>
</details>
<details>
<summary>What is the command for installing a package locally in with npm?</summary>
<ul><ul>
  <li>npm install `package-name`</li>
</ul></ul>
</details>
<details>
<summary>What is the command for installing a package globally in with npm?</summary>
<ul><ul>
  <li>npm install -g `package-name`</li>
</ul></ul>
</details>
<details>
<summary>What is the difference between a global and local package install with npm?</summary>
<ul><ul>
  <li>Global installs are available from anywhere on your computer, local installs are only available within a specified project.</li>
</ul></ul>
</details>

Commit message:

Changes assignment to use nodejs.dev/learn primarily.

nodeJS/getting-started/Getting-Started.md, after:

Like we learned in the introduction lesson, Node.js is really just JavaScript. So a basic understanding of JavaScript is necessary in order to understand Node. For this reason, it is highly recommended that you take our prerequisite [JavaScript course](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/javascript) before continuing with this course.

This lesson will take you through a tutorial that will teach you the basic modules and functions that you need to get up and running with Node.js. The project that comes right after this assignment will ask you to use Node to create a basic website that will include an `Index`, `About` and `Contact Me` page. So while learning the topics in this lesson, be on the lookout for things that might help you complete the project.

### Learning Outcomes
By the end of this lesson, you should be able to do the following:

 - Explain some things that Node.js is commonly used for.
 - Create and use modules in Node.js (both built-in and user created). 
 - Set up a basic webserver with Node.js using the HTTP module.
 - Read, create, update, and delete files from Node.js.
 - Use the URL module to parse a url address and split it into readable parts.
 - Understand how to use NPM.
 - Create, fire and listen for your own events.

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">

- Let's dive in and start looking at Node server-side code! We will be hopping around lessons in the [NodeJS.dev](https://nodejs.dev/learn) docs which you should follow along.
  - Introduction
    - Read the entire Quick Start section from [Introduction of Node.js](https://nodejs.dev/learn/introduction-to-nodejs) to [Differences between Node.js and the Browser](https://nodejs.dev/learn/differences-between-nodejs-and-the-browser). 
  - Get Started
    - Learn how to run Node.js scripts from the terminal in [this](https://nodejs.dev/learn/run-nodejs-scripts-from-the-command-line) lesson.
    - Learn quickly about .env files and how we use them [here](https://nodejs.dev/learn/how-to-read-environment-variables-from-nodejs)! This will become very important in the future!!
  - HTTP Module
    - Learn how to [Build an HTTP server](https://nodejs.dev/learn/build-an-http-server), and then [how to make HTTP requests with Node](https://nodejs.dev/learn/making-http-requests-with-nodejs).
  - File System
    - First, take a look at the [fs module](https://nodejs.dev/learn/the-nodejs-fs-module) that we use heavily for working with files in Node.
    - Then, let's start [writing files](https://nodejs.dev/learn/writing-files-with-nodejs) in Node.
    - Finally, we'll learn how to [read files](https://nodejs.dev/learn/reading-files-with-nodejs).
  - The URL Class
    - Check out this [documentation](https://nodejs.org/api/url.html#url_the_whatwg_url_api) on the URL class. Play with the code samples to see how it works!
  - NPM
    - Let's get an [introduction](https://nodejs.dev/learn/an-introduction-to-the-npm-package-manager) to NPM.
    - After that, it's time to quickly get introduced to the [package.json file](https://nodejs.dev/learn/the-package-json-guide).
  - Events
    - Start with [this](https://nodejs.dev/learn/the-nodejs-events-module) section to see the `events` module.
    - Follow along the [Event Emitter](https://nodejs.dev/learn/the-nodejs-event-emitter) section.

- Optional Extra Credit!
  - Although a bit outdated, the W3 Schools introduction to Node.js is super useful!  Go to the [w3 schools node tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/nodejs/default.asp) and code along with the following lessons (which should be listed on the sidebar of their site). Specifically, work from the **Node.js Intro** through to **Node.js Events**. You can look at the **File Uploads** and **Email** sections if you're feeling particularly ambitious! **NOTE**: The URL module is very outdated. Refer to the earlier link if you run into issues in the Node.js URL Module from W3.

</div>

### Knowledge Check
This section contains questions for you to check your understanding of this lesson. If you're having trouble answering the questions below on your own, clicking the small arrow to the left of the question will reveal the answers.

<details>
<summary>What is a File System Module? How and why would you use it?</summary>
<ul><ul>
  <li>The Node.js file system module allows you to work with the file system in your computer. It's included by using the require() method and can be used to read, create, update, delete, and rename files.</li>
</ul></ul>
</details>
<details>
<summary>What is the command for installing a package locally in with npm?</summary>
<ul><ul>
  <li>npm install `package-name`</li>
</ul></ul>
</details>
<details>
<summary>What is the command for installing a package globally in with npm?</summary>
<ul><ul>
  <li>npm install -g `package-name`</li>
</ul></ul>
</details>
<details>
<summary>What is the difference between a global and local package install with npm?</summary>
<ul><ul>
  <li>Global installs are available from anywhere on your computer, local installs are only available within a specified project.</li>
</ul></ul>
</details>

### Additional Resources
- This [crash course video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fBNz5xF-Kx4) from TraversyMedia is a great code-along for getting into Node.js. It may seem repetitive after completing the assignment, but practice is repetition!
