foundations/html_css/flexbox/flexbox-growing-and-shrinking.md, before:

Let's look a little closer at what actually happened when you put `flex: 1` on those flex items in the last lesson.

### Learning Outcomes
* You'll learn the 3 properties that are defined by the `flex` shorthand, and how to use them individually.

### The flex shorthand

The `flex` declaration is actually a shorthand for 3 properties that you can set on a flex item. These properties affect how flex items size themselves within their container. You've seen some shorthand properties before, but we haven't officially defined them yet.

> Shorthand properties are CSS properties that let you set the values of multiple other CSS properties simultaneously. Using a shorthand property, you can write more concise (and often more readable) stylesheets, saving time and energy.
>
> Source: [Shorthand properties on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Shorthand_properties)

In this case, `flex` is actually a shorthand for `flex-grow`, `flex-shrink` and `flex-basis`.

![flex shorthand](https://cdn.statically.io/gh/TheOdinProject/curriculum/495704c6eb6bf33bc927534f231533a82b27b2ac/html_css/v2/foundations/flexbox/imgs/10.png)

The default value of the `flex` property is shown in the above screenshot: `flex-grow: 0`, `flex-shrink: 1`, `flex-basis: 0%`. Very often you see the flex shorthand defined with only _one_ value. In that case, that value is applied to `flex-grow`, so when we put `flex: 1` on our divs, we were actually specifying `flex: 1 1 0%`.

### flex-grow

`flex-grow` expects a single number as its value, and that number is used as the flex-item's "growth factor". When we applied `flex: 1` to every div inside our container, we were telling every div to grow the same amount. The result of this is that every div ends up the exact same size. If we instead add `flex: 2` to just one of the divs, then that div would grow to 2x the size of the others.

In the following example the `flex` shorthand has values for `flex-shrink` and `flex-basis` specified with their default values.

<p class="codepen" data-height="300" data-default-tab="html,result" data-slug-hash="YzQqvgK" data-editable="true" data-user="TheOdinProjectExamples" style="height: 300px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples/pen/YzQqvgK">
  flex-grow example</a> by TheOdinProject (<a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples">@TheOdinProjectExamples</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://cpwebassets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

### flex-shrink

`flex-shrink` is similar to `flex-grow`, but sets the "shrink factor" of a flex item. `flex-shrink` only ends up being applied if the size of all flex items is larger than their parent container. For example, if our 3 divs from above had a width declaration like: `width: 100px`, and `.flex-container` was smaller than `300px`, our divs would have to shrink to fit.

The default shrink factor is `flex-shrink: 1`, which means all items will shrink evenly. If you do _not_ want an item to shrink then you can specify `flex-shrink: 0;`. You can also specify higher numbers to make certain items shrink at a higher rate than normal.

Here's an example. Note that we've also changed the `flex-basis` for reasons that will be explained shortly. If you shrink your browser window you'll notice that `.two` never gets smaller than the given width of 250px, even though the `flex-grow` rule would otherwise specify that each element should be equally sized.

<p class="codepen" data-height="300" data-default-tab="html,result" data-slug-hash="JjJXZVz" data-editable="true" data-user="TheOdinProjectExamples" style="height: 300px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples/pen/JjJXZVz">
  flex-shrink example</a> by TheOdinProject (<a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples">@TheOdinProjectExamples</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://cpwebassets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

An important implication to notice here is that when you specify `flex-grow` or `flex-shrink`, flex items do not necessarily respect your given values for `width`. In the above example, all 3 divs are given a width of 250px, but when their parent is big enough, they grow to fill it. Likewise, when the parent is too small, the default behavior is for them to shrink to fit. This is not a bug, but it could be confusing behavior if you aren't expecting it.

### flex-basis

`flex-basis` simply sets the initial size of a flex item, so any sort of `flex-grow`ing or `flex-shrink`ing starts from that baseline size. The shorthand value defaults to `flex-basis: 0%`. The reason we had to change it to `auto` in the `flex-shrink` example is that with the basis set to `0`, those items would ignore the item's width, and everything would shrink evenly. Using `auto` as a flex-basis tells the item to check for a width declaration (`width: 250px`).

> #### Important note about flex-basis:
> There is a difference between the default value of `flex-basis` and the way the `flex` shorthand defines it if no `flex-basis` is given. The actual default value for `flex-basis` is `auto`, but when you specify `flex: 1` on an element, it interprets that as `flex: 1 1 0`. If you want to _only_ adjust an item's `flex-grow` you can simply do so directly, without the shorthand, or you can be more verbose and use the full 3 value shorthand `flex: 1 1 auto`

### In practice...

In practice you will likely not be using complex values for `flex-grow`, `flex-shrink` or `flex-basis`. Generally, you're most likely to use declarations like `flex: 1;` to make divs grow evenly and `flex-shrink: 0` to keep certain divs from shrinking.

It _is_ possible to get fancy, and set up layouts where some columns relate to each other in a specific ratio, so it's useful to know that you can use other values, but those are relatively rare.

### Knowledge Check
* What are the 3 values defined in the shorthand `flex` property (e.g. `flex: 1 1 auto`)?

Commit message:

Add knowledge check explanation text - foundations

foundations/html_css/flexbox/flexbox-growing-and-shrinking.md, after:

Let's look a little closer at what actually happened when you put `flex: 1` on those flex items in the last lesson.

### Learning Outcomes
* You'll learn the 3 properties that are defined by the `flex` shorthand, and how to use them individually.

### The flex shorthand

The `flex` declaration is actually a shorthand for 3 properties that you can set on a flex item. These properties affect how flex items size themselves within their container. You've seen some shorthand properties before, but we haven't officially defined them yet.

> Shorthand properties are CSS properties that let you set the values of multiple other CSS properties simultaneously. Using a shorthand property, you can write more concise (and often more readable) stylesheets, saving time and energy.
>
> Source: [Shorthand properties on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Shorthand_properties)

In this case, `flex` is actually a shorthand for `flex-grow`, `flex-shrink` and `flex-basis`.

![flex shorthand](https://cdn.statically.io/gh/TheOdinProject/curriculum/495704c6eb6bf33bc927534f231533a82b27b2ac/html_css/v2/foundations/flexbox/imgs/10.png)

The default value of the `flex` property is shown in the above screenshot: `flex-grow: 0`, `flex-shrink: 1`, `flex-basis: 0%`. Very often you see the flex shorthand defined with only _one_ value. In that case, that value is applied to `flex-grow`, so when we put `flex: 1` on our divs, we were actually specifying `flex: 1 1 0%`.

### flex-grow

`flex-grow` expects a single number as its value, and that number is used as the flex-item's "growth factor". When we applied `flex: 1` to every div inside our container, we were telling every div to grow the same amount. The result of this is that every div ends up the exact same size. If we instead add `flex: 2` to just one of the divs, then that div would grow to 2x the size of the others.

In the following example the `flex` shorthand has values for `flex-shrink` and `flex-basis` specified with their default values.

<p class="codepen" data-height="300" data-default-tab="html,result" data-slug-hash="YzQqvgK" data-editable="true" data-user="TheOdinProjectExamples" style="height: 300px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples/pen/YzQqvgK">
  flex-grow example</a> by TheOdinProject (<a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples">@TheOdinProjectExamples</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://cpwebassets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

### flex-shrink

`flex-shrink` is similar to `flex-grow`, but sets the "shrink factor" of a flex item. `flex-shrink` only ends up being applied if the size of all flex items is larger than their parent container. For example, if our 3 divs from above had a width declaration like: `width: 100px`, and `.flex-container` was smaller than `300px`, our divs would have to shrink to fit.

The default shrink factor is `flex-shrink: 1`, which means all items will shrink evenly. If you do _not_ want an item to shrink then you can specify `flex-shrink: 0;`. You can also specify higher numbers to make certain items shrink at a higher rate than normal.

Here's an example. Note that we've also changed the `flex-basis` for reasons that will be explained shortly. If you shrink your browser window you'll notice that `.two` never gets smaller than the given width of 250px, even though the `flex-grow` rule would otherwise specify that each element should be equally sized.

<p class="codepen" data-height="300" data-default-tab="html,result" data-slug-hash="JjJXZVz" data-editable="true" data-user="TheOdinProjectExamples" style="height: 300px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples/pen/JjJXZVz">
  flex-shrink example</a> by TheOdinProject (<a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples">@TheOdinProjectExamples</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://cpwebassets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

An important implication to notice here is that when you specify `flex-grow` or `flex-shrink`, flex items do not necessarily respect your given values for `width`. In the above example, all 3 divs are given a width of 250px, but when their parent is big enough, they grow to fill it. Likewise, when the parent is too small, the default behavior is for them to shrink to fit. This is not a bug, but it could be confusing behavior if you aren't expecting it.

### flex-basis

`flex-basis` simply sets the initial size of a flex item, so any sort of `flex-grow`ing or `flex-shrink`ing starts from that baseline size. The shorthand value defaults to `flex-basis: 0%`. The reason we had to change it to `auto` in the `flex-shrink` example is that with the basis set to `0`, those items would ignore the item's width, and everything would shrink evenly. Using `auto` as a flex-basis tells the item to check for a width declaration (`width: 250px`).

> #### Important note about flex-basis:
> There is a difference between the default value of `flex-basis` and the way the `flex` shorthand defines it if no `flex-basis` is given. The actual default value for `flex-basis` is `auto`, but when you specify `flex: 1` on an element, it interprets that as `flex: 1 1 0`. If you want to _only_ adjust an item's `flex-grow` you can simply do so directly, without the shorthand, or you can be more verbose and use the full 3 value shorthand `flex: 1 1 auto`

### In practice...

In practice you will likely not be using complex values for `flex-grow`, `flex-shrink` or `flex-basis`. Generally, you're most likely to use declarations like `flex: 1;` to make divs grow evenly and `flex-shrink: 0` to keep certain divs from shrinking.

It _is_ possible to get fancy, and set up layouts where some columns relate to each other in a specific ratio, so it's useful to know that you can use other values, but those are relatively rare.

### Knowledge Check
This section contains questions for you to check your understanding of this lesson. If you’re having trouble answering the questions below on your own, review the material above to find the answer.

* What are the 3 values defined in the shorthand `flex` property (e.g. `flex: 1 1 auto`)?
