ruby_programming/introduction/lesson_introduction_to_ruby_programming.md, before:

### Introduction
In this course you will learn Ruby, the language designed specifically with programmer happiness in mind. What takes dozens of lines of code in Java or a hundred in C could take just a couple in Ruby because it prepackages lots of useful functions into easy-to-use convenience methods.  

Ruby is pretty darn close to Python. In some ways, they sort of resemble romance languages -- once you've learned one, it's not terribly hard to pick up another because they tend to follow many of the same conventions, just using different "words". Python tends to be taught more in colleges and is used a fair bit for more data-intensive and processor-heavy applications.  

But Ruby has a secret weapon that makes it the love of fast-iterating website producers -- the framework Ruby on Rails (which we'll cover in a later course). It has been optimized for being able to write code faster and with less headache, which allows you to iterate more frequently when building a website. By so doing, the end product is more likely to suit the client or the user's needs, making your first mission as an engineer a success.

You'll do a healthy chunk of learning in this course, but by the end of it all, you'll have built some pretty sweet projects including **Tic Tac Toe**, **Hangman**, and even **Chess**. You'll be able to put together a **Twitter spambot** (that really spams!), save and open files, test out your code, separate your spaghetti code into nice modular classes, and even reproduce some basic algorithms and data structures for solving complex problems.  *Basically, you're going to start feeling a whole lot more like a real programmer and that feeling will be justified.*

### Learning Ruby before Ruby on Rails
Some people believe you can just dive right into Rails and start firing out websites.  Rails is a framework built using Ruby and every piece of code in it is Ruby.  When (not *if*) something in your project breaks, you'd better be able to debug it. And what happens when you want to stretch your wings and do something just a bit beyond what the vanilla tutorials show you how to do? The amount of time you'd spend googling your error messages and staring blankly at help docs was better spent learning Ruby.

### Breakdown of What You'll Learn
Ruby's a big language so it's been broken up into smaller chunks to make it more digestible. Some of the early material will be fairly straightforward and will rely on simple exercises to help reinforce understanding. But the goal is for you to get a much deeper and more practical understanding of the material than that. As we get further along and into some of the more advanced topics, we'll be learning less and building more...just the way it should be.

* In the first section you'll learn all about the basics of Ruby and programming itself.
* In the second section section you will learn about Object-Oriented Programming, which will show you how to organize your code into reusable objects.
* In the third section you will dive into a bit of basic computer science, where you'll learn about recursion and common data structures.
* In the fourth section, you will learn the basics of test-driven development.
* In the fifth section, you will learn some more advanced features of Git and the workflow professional developers follow with Git.
* In the sixth and final section, you will tie everything together and build a fully fledged chess game.

### Assignment

1. Read the [Introduction](https://launchschool.com/books/ruby/read/introduction) of Launch School's *Introduction to Programming with Ruby* book to learn a bit more about the history of Ruby.
2. To understand how you'll be interacting with Ruby throughout this course, read through the [Your Tools chapter](http://ruby-for-beginners.rubymonstas.org/your_tools.html) of The *Ruby for Beginners* book from Ruby Monstas. (Note that even though they recommend using Sublime as your text editor, any code editor will work. For the record, we still tend to prefer VS Code around here!)
3. Read through the [Preparations](https://launchschool.com/books/ruby/read/preparations#usingacodeeditor) of Launch School's *Introduction to Programming with Ruby* book for some helpful advice about using and learning Ruby effectively.

### Optional Ruby Materials
The resources here cover Ruby basics, and you may want to go through these on the side while going through the first section of this Ruby Basics course. Repetition is the mother of all learning after all!

Consider the resources here optional, though; we recommend them to help supplement your learning.

1. [The Codecademy Ruby course](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-ruby), which covers Ruby basics and OOP basics
2. [Chris Pine's Learn to Program book](https://pine.fm/LearnToProgram/), which covers Ruby basics along with plenty of exercises

### Okay, enough talk. Let's learn Ruby!

Commit message:

Add SO post on `irb -r ./your_file.rb`

ruby_programming/introduction/lesson_introduction_to_ruby_programming.md, after:

### Introduction
In this course you will learn Ruby, the language designed specifically with programmer happiness in mind. What takes dozens of lines of code in Java or a hundred in C could take just a couple in Ruby because it prepackages lots of useful functions into easy-to-use convenience methods.  

Ruby is pretty darn close to Python. In some ways, they sort of resemble romance languages -- once you've learned one, it's not terribly hard to pick up another because they tend to follow many of the same conventions, just using different "words". Python tends to be taught more in colleges and is used a fair bit for more data-intensive and processor-heavy applications.  

But Ruby has a secret weapon that makes it the love of fast-iterating website producers -- the framework Ruby on Rails (which we'll cover in a later course). It has been optimized for being able to write code faster and with less headache, which allows you to iterate more frequently when building a website. By so doing, the end product is more likely to suit the client or the user's needs, making your first mission as an engineer a success.

You'll do a healthy chunk of learning in this course, but by the end of it all, you'll have built some pretty sweet projects including **Tic Tac Toe**, **Hangman**, and even **Chess**. You'll be able to put together a **Twitter spambot** (that really spams!), save and open files, test out your code, separate your spaghetti code into nice modular classes, and even reproduce some basic algorithms and data structures for solving complex problems.  *Basically, you're going to start feeling a whole lot more like a real programmer and that feeling will be justified.*

### Learning Ruby before Ruby on Rails
Some people believe you can just dive right into Rails and start firing out websites.  Rails is a framework built using Ruby and every piece of code in it is Ruby.  When (not *if*) something in your project breaks, you'd better be able to debug it. And what happens when you want to stretch your wings and do something just a bit beyond what the vanilla tutorials show you how to do? The amount of time you'd spend googling your error messages and staring blankly at help docs was better spent learning Ruby.

### Breakdown of What You'll Learn
Ruby's a big language so it's been broken up into smaller chunks to make it more digestible. Some of the early material will be fairly straightforward and will rely on simple exercises to help reinforce understanding. But the goal is for you to get a much deeper and more practical understanding of the material than that. As we get further along and into some of the more advanced topics, we'll be learning less and building more...just the way it should be.

* In the first section you'll learn all about the basics of Ruby and programming itself.
* In the second section section you will learn about Object-Oriented Programming, which will show you how to organize your code into reusable objects.
* In the third section you will dive into a bit of basic computer science, where you'll learn about recursion and common data structures.
* In the fourth section, you will learn the basics of test-driven development.
* In the fifth section, you will learn some more advanced features of Git and the workflow professional developers follow with Git.
* In the sixth and final section, you will tie everything together and build a fully fledged chess game.

### Assignment

1. Read the [Introduction](https://launchschool.com/books/ruby/read/introduction) of Launch School's *Introduction to Programming with Ruby* book to learn a bit more about the history of Ruby.
2. To understand how you'll be interacting with Ruby throughout this course, read through the [Your Tools chapter](http://ruby-for-beginners.rubymonstas.org/your_tools.html) of The *Ruby for Beginners* book from Ruby Monstas. (Note that even though they recommend using Sublime as your text editor, any code editor will work. For the record, we still tend to prefer VS Code around here!)
3. Read through the [Preparations](https://launchschool.com/books/ruby/read/preparations#usingacodeeditor) of Launch School's *Introduction to Programming with Ruby* book for some helpful advice about using and learning Ruby effectively.
4. Now that you've learned a few ways to interact with your Ruby code, read about [how to use code files inside IRB](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13112245/ruby-how-to-load-a-file-into-interactive-ruby-console-irb/38533339), which will be helpful for quick troubleshooting and experimenting. 

### Optional Ruby Materials
The resources here cover Ruby basics, and you may want to go through these on the side while going through the first section of this Ruby Basics course. Repetition is the mother of all learning after all!

Consider the resources here optional, though; we recommend them to help supplement your learning.

1. [The Codecademy Ruby course](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-ruby), which covers Ruby basics and OOP basics
2. [Chris Pine's Learn to Program book](https://pine.fm/LearnToProgram/), which covers Ruby basics along with plenty of exercises

### Okay, enough talk. Let's learn Ruby!
