web_development_101/the_basics/how_this_course_will_work.md, before:

### Welcome to The Odin Project

The Odin Project is an open source community dedicated to providing the best sources information to take you from zero to full-stack developer.  More information at [The Odin Project](https://www.theodinproject.com/about)

### Introduction

In this unit, we'll learn about how the Web works and start thinking about the basics of computer and web programming.

Each of the following sections and lessons represents essential baseline knowledge.  Even if you have no intention of becoming a web developer yourself, this material should help you gain a useful understanding of the moving parts involved in creating and serving content on the web.  

We will start by familiarizing you with the internet and your own computer.  You will then learn the basics of front end technologies like HTML, CSS, and Javascript before stepping into the back end with a brief foray into Ruby and Ruby on Rails.  We will finish by learning about databases and topics like Git workflows and software in the cloud.

By the end of this unit, you should not only understand how the web works, but be able to identify and differentiate each of the technologies that you will be learning in order to build web applications of your own.  You will be able to build a simple webpage, style it, and add minor elements of interactivity while working comfortably from the command line.

We will cover a very broad area of knowledge here and that's intentional. It's silly to go diving straight into server-side programming without having a context for what it is and why it's useful (and why you should learn it!).  

### How it Works

This curriculum works by pulling together the best content we can find to learn a particular topic.  In each lesson, we'll introduce the topic and try to provide some useful context before pointing you to external resources made by others.

Most lessons will contain questions that you should be able to answer before moving on.  Some of the lessons will ask you to do exercises and there will even be several projects to help you grow your understanding by actually building things.  

While most of this material should be fine to tackle on your own, the projects in particular are good opportunities to find a partner and do some pair programming.  Give it a shot!

### What Comes Afterwards

Once you've completed this course, you should be pretty comfortable with the building blocks of web programming but itching to dig deeper.  Though we spend a fair bit of time digging into each of the major topics, it's really just a taste of what comes next (and all the cool stuff you can do with it).  

The courses that come after this one (Ruby, Ruby on Rails, and Javascript) are designed to take that foundation and build it into an applied understanding of the material.  Those courses will focus on taking these raw building blocks and honing them into a highly functional skillset.  Once you've completed Web Development 101, you'll be well set up to take those next steps.

Commit message:

Improve grammar
Mostly improved grammar and flow; also updated the description of the overall curriculum to match the current order

web_development_101/the_basics/how_this_course_will_work.md, after:

### Welcome to The Odin Project

The Odin Project is an open source community project dedicated to providing the best information sources to take you from zero to full-stack developer.  More information can be found at The Odin Project's [about page](https://www.theodinproject.com/about).

### Introduction

In this unit, we'll learn about how the web works and start thinking about the basics of computer and web programming.

Each of the following sections and lessons represents essential baseline knowledge.  Even if you have no intention of becoming a web developer yourself, this material should help you gain a useful understanding of the moving parts involved in creating and serving content on the web.  

We will start by getting familiar with the internet and your own computer.  Next, we'll work on setting up a development environment and learning about Git and GitHub. Then, we'll go over the basics of front end technologies like HTML, CSS, and Javascript before stepping into the back end with a brief foray into Ruby and Ruby on Rails.  We will finish by learning about pair programming so that you can team up to code with others around the world.

By the end of this unit, you should not only understand how the web works but also be able to identify and differentiate between each of the technologies that you will be learning in order to build your own web applications.  You will be able to build a simple webpage, style it, and add minor elements of interactivity while working comfortably from the command line.

This section intentionally covers a very broad range of knowledge. It's silly to go diving straight into server-side programming without having a context for what it is and why it's useful (and why you should learn it!).  

### How It Works

This curriculum works by pulling together the best content we can find across the internet for learning a particular topic.  In each lesson, we'll introduce the topic and try to provide some useful context before pointing you to external resources made by others.

Most lessons will contain questions that you should be able to answer before moving on.  Some of the lessons will ask you to do exercises, and we also provide several projects to help you grow your understanding by actually building things.  

While most of this material should be fine to tackle on your own, the projects in particular are good opportunities to find a partner and do some pair programming.  Give it a shot!

### What Comes Next

Once you've completed this course, you should be pretty comfortable with the building blocks of web programming but itching to dig deeper.  Though we spend a fair bit of time digging into each of the major topics in this course, it's really just a taste of what comes next (and all the cool stuff you can do with it).  

The courses that come after this one (Ruby, Ruby on Rails, and Javascript) are designed to take that foundation and build it into an applied understanding of the material.  Those courses will focus on taking these raw building blocks and honing them into a highly functional skillset.  Once you've completed Web Development 101, you'll have built a strong foundation to take those next steps.
