web_development_101/the_basics/join_the_odin_community.md, before:

### Introduction
Working and collaborating with other people on a project, whether it be big or small, is an important part of becoming a web developer. Therefore at Odin we encourage you to participate in our online community [chat](https://gitter.im/TheOdinProject/theodinproject) and [forum](https://forum.theodinproject.com) where we can all grow together towards becoming web developers.  While you're at it, why not check out our [Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/theodinproject/) and follow us on Twitter [@TheOdinProject](https://twitter.com/TheOdinProject)?

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">

  1. First create a free GitHub account [here](https://github.com/join). As you will find out later on, GitHub will become an integral part of your development workflow, so you will be using it for much, much more than just accessing the chat.

  2. Use that fresh GitHub account and sign up for the forums [here](https://forum.theodinproject.com). Jump in and introduce yourself in the [introductions category](https://forum.theodinproject.com/c/introductions). Tell us your story! Where are you from? What made you aspire to become a web developer? What are your hopes and dreams? We encourage you to keep on sharing your thoughts AND your code.

  3. Finally, sign in to the chat with your handy GitHub account [here](https://gitter.im/TheOdinProject/theodinproject). Pop in and say hello! We're always glad to welcome a new community member.

</div>

We have chat rooms for every development topic covered by Odin and beyond. You can view all the rooms we currently have [here](https://gitter.im/TheOdinProject/home).

We also have forum categories for introducing yourself, asking for help, working on Odin, and hanging out. You can view all the categories we have [here](https://forum.theodinproject.com/categories).

Read on to find out how to make use of our community.

### Why having a community is awesome for you

Web development will be a long and arduous journey; you can make the marathon a lot more fun by pairing up with somebody who is running it at the same pace as you. It is a great way to bounce ideas off each other and motivate one another to the finish line.

Veterans at The Odin Project love to help fill in knowledge gaps and provide new insights and perspectives on how to improve your code. Helping others that haven't made it as far as you is a great way to deepen your own understanding and make your learning stick.

When you run into the desert of despair—where your code doesn't work or make sense to you anymore—you can find an oasis of knowledge and encouragement amongst our community. We've all been there before!

Remember that project you struggled with tirelessly and that you're so proud of finishing? You will get to share your work and progress with those who really appreciate how much hard work went into it.

### Why a community is awesome for Odin

We are working hard to update existing lessons and produce new content, so we would love to hear your feedback on how you are coping with the lessons and projects. We really want you to find the lessons fun, engaging, and informative. At the same time, we would like you to find the projects both doable and challenging. So please let us know!

### Oh foo bar!

As most of the projects are designed to push you to your limit, please remember that there is always a community to turn to! You do not need to know how to solve every problem straight away, BUT you do need to have a general idea of where you are going. This becomes really important when asking your questions, because sometimes the problem can be a matter of your **approach** and not your coding ability.

If your approach is right and the problem is a tough one, it's a good time to pause and take a breather. Break the problem down into little pieces and then decide what is really holding you back. We call this technique [rubber duck debugging](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rubber_duck_debugging). Who knows, you might have realised the solution already. If a solution still cannot be found, it's question time.

### Asking your questions
A good way to phrase your question is to tell us the context:

* What do you think the problem is?
* What exactly do you want to happen?
* What is actually happening?
* How did you get there?
* What have you tried so far?

### Formatting your questions

Asking your questions in a readable format helps everyone debug them better. Here are some ways to go about that:

If you're having troubles with command-line stuff, make sure you include *both your input and the error message* you're getting.

In the chatroom and forums, code can be displayed differently from normal sentences by using **backticks** (\`\`), which can be found above the Tab key on US and UK keyboards, and which are not to be confused with single quotation marks (''). If you wrap your code with backticks at **both** ends of the code, you will get something like this:

For single lines of code:

`#one backtick at both ends`

OR

For multiple lines of code:

```
#three backticks on a separate line ABOVE your code
Your Code
#three backticks on a separate line BELOW your code
```

Show us a **screenshot** if you can't pinpoint the problem. This is especially useful to show the output of commands in the command line. You will need to drag and drop your screenshot image file into the chat box to upload it on Gitter or hit the 'Upload' button on a new reply in the forums.

**Push your code to GitHub!** If the puzzle still can't be solved, push your project to GitHub so that others can comb through and debug the code. You'll learn all about GitHub really soon.

### Some fun in chat

* Have fun with giphys: type `/giphy hi` to say hi to everyone.
* Navigate the chatroom better by typing `/help` for more info.
* Show your appreciation to those who have helped you on your journey with `@odin-bot ++`.
* Don't forget about all the [available rooms](https://gitter.im/TheOdinProject/home) that you can join. They're categorised by development topic.

### Forum-specific features

* The forum supports embedded 'replits.' These are essentially runnable bits of code. They're great for sharing code to get help or feedback. You'll learn more about this later.
* As you spend time in the forums helping others or being helped, your trust level will slowly go up and you'll unlock more and more functionality.

Commit message:

update chat link to discord

web_development_101/the_basics/join_the_odin_community.md, after:

### Introduction
Working and collaborating with other people on a project, whether it be big or small, is an important part of becoming a web developer. Therefore at Odin we encourage you to participate in our online community [chat](https://discord.gg/5v6s6rs) and [forum](https://forum.theodinproject.com) where we can all grow together towards becoming web developers.  While you're at it, why not check out our [Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/theodinproject/) and follow us on Twitter [@TheOdinProject](https://twitter.com/TheOdinProject)?

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">

  1. First create a free GitHub account [here](https://github.com/join). As you will find out later on, GitHub will become an integral part of your development workflow.

  2. Use that fresh GitHub account and sign up for the forums [here](https://forum.theodinproject.com). Jump in and introduce yourself in the [introductions category](https://forum.theodinproject.com/c/introductions). Tell us your story! Where are you from? What made you aspire to become a web developer? What are your hopes and dreams? We encourage you to keep on sharing your thoughts AND your code.

  3. Finally, sign up for the chat app [here](https://discord.gg/5v6s6rs). Pop in and say hello! We're always glad to welcome a new community member.

</div>

We have chat rooms for every development topic covered by Odin and beyond. Log into the chat to view all the rooms we currently have.

We also have forum categories for introducing yourself, asking for help, working on Odin, and hanging out. You can view all the categories we have [here](https://forum.theodinproject.com/categories).

Read on to find out how to make use of our community.

### Why having a community is awesome for you

Web development will be a long and arduous journey; you can make the marathon a lot more fun by pairing up with somebody who is running it at the same pace as you. It is a great way to bounce ideas off each other and motivate one another to the finish line.

Veterans at The Odin Project love to help fill in knowledge gaps and provide new insights and perspectives on how to improve your code. Helping others that haven't made it as far as you is a great way to deepen your own understanding and make your learning stick.

When you run into the desert of despair—where your code doesn't work or make sense to you anymore—you can find an oasis of knowledge and encouragement amongst our community. We've all been there before!

Remember that project you struggled with tirelessly and that you're so proud of finishing? You will get to share your work and progress with those who really appreciate how much hard work went into it.

### Why a community is awesome for Odin

We are working hard to update existing lessons and produce new content, so we would love to hear your feedback on how you are coping with the lessons and projects. We really want you to find the lessons fun, engaging, and informative. At the same time, we would like you to find the projects both doable and challenging. So please let us know!

### Oh foo bar!

As most of the projects are designed to push you to your limit, please remember that there is always a community to turn to! You do not need to know how to solve every problem straight away, BUT you do need to have a general idea of where you are going. This becomes really important when asking your questions, because sometimes the problem can be a matter of your **approach** and not your coding ability.

If your approach is right and the problem is a tough one, it's a good time to pause and take a breather. Break the problem down into little pieces and then decide what is really holding you back. We call this technique [rubber duck debugging](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rubber_duck_debugging). Who knows, you might have realised the solution already. If a solution still cannot be found, it's question time.

### Asking your questions
A good way to phrase your question is to tell us the context:

* What do you think the problem is?
* What exactly do you want to happen?
* What is actually happening?
* How did you get there?
* What have you tried so far?

### Formatting your questions

Asking your questions in a readable format helps everyone debug them better. Here are some ways to go about that:

If you're having troubles with command-line stuff, make sure you include *both your input and the error message* you're getting.

In the chat rooms and forums, code can be displayed differently from normal sentences by using **backticks** (\`\`), which can be found above the Tab key on US and UK keyboards, and which are not to be confused with single quotation marks (''). If you wrap your code with backticks at **both** ends of the code, you will get something like this:

For single lines of code:

`#one backtick at both ends`

OR

For multiple lines of code:

```
#three backticks on a separate line ABOVE your code
Your Code
#three backticks on a separate line BELOW your code
```

Show us a **screenshot** if you can't pinpoint the problem. This is especially useful to show the output of commands in the command line. You will need to drag and drop your screenshot image file into the chat box to upload it on Discord or hit the 'Upload' button on a new reply in the forums.

**Push your code to GitHub!** If the puzzle still can't be solved, push your project to GitHub so that others can comb through and debug the code. You'll learn all about GitHub really soon.

### Some fun in chat

* Have fun with giphys: type `/giphy hi` to say hi to everyone.
* Navigate the chat rooms better by typing `/help` for more info.
* Show your appreciation to those who have helped you on your journey with `@odin-bot ++`.
* Don't forget about all the available rooms that you poke your head in. They're categorised by development topic.

### Forum-specific features

* The forum supports embedded 'replits.' These are essentially runnable bits of code. They're great for sharing code to get help or feedback. You'll learn more about this later.
* As you spend time in the forums helping others or being helped, your trust level will slowly go up and you'll unlock more and more functionality.
