html_css/v2/main-course/animation/keyframes.md, before:

### Introduction

Now let's explore CSS animations using keyframes. This will expand upon your encounter with CSS transitions and delve into the differences between them.

### Learning Outcomes

* The differences between CSS transitions and CSS animations
* How to configure animation sub-properties
* How to sequence an animation using keyframes

### Animations

Animations let you animate elements from one style configuration to another. Does this sound familiar? You wouldn't be wrong for thinking, "Well, what's the point in learning animations if they are basically the same as transitions?", but animations greatly expand on some capabilities that transitions simply do not have. 

CSS transitions were designed to animate an element from one state to another. They *can* loop but they weren't designed for that, whereas animations were designed with the purpose of explicitly enabling loops.

Transitions need a trigger in the form of a pseudo-class but animations do not. Once you have your elements in place and CSS defined, an animation will start running immediately if that's what you told it to do. 

Transitions are also not as flexible as using animations. When you define a transition, imagine you are sending that element on a journey in a straight line from point A to point B. Yes the `transition-timing-function` can add some variation to the timing of this change, but it doesn't compare to the amount of flexibility added by using animations.

Let's see an animation in action to see what we've been talking about. 

<p class="codepen" data-height="300" data-theme-id="dark" data-default-tab="css,result" data-slug-hash="jOGENZz" data-editable="true" data-user="TheOdinProjectExamples" style="height: 300px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples/pen/jOGENZz">
  keyframes 1 longhand</a> by TheOdinProject (<a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples">@TheOdinProjectExamples</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://cpwebassets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

Note how the animation is already running, how it keeps repeating itself and the additional `@keyframes` rule at the bottom. We'll explore that later. For now just know that if you need to change the opacity of an element when it is active, then an animation would be overkill. But if you need to carry out something more complicated, animations provide you with the tools you need. 

Let's look at some animation syntax. The `animation` property is actually shorthand for multiple CSS properties, but we'll stick with introducing you to four of these to get started. The example above was written with this:

~~~css
#ball {
  /* ... other CSS properties ... */
  animation-duration: 2s;
  animation-name: change-color;
  animation-iteration-count: infinite;
  animation-direction: alternate;
}
~~~

Note that this is only the first half of defining an animation with keyframes. This is the configuration stage where we define our animation sub-properties on the `#ball` element. Here we have:

* An `animation-duration` of three seconds. This means that it will take two seconds for the`#ball` element to complete one animation cycle. 

* Defined the `animation-name` to be "change-color" which is essential for the `@keyframe` section coming up next. This is just a custom name that is not a particular CSS value. We could have called it "pineapples" if we so wished, but for our purposes "change-color" suits well. 

* Set the `animation-iteration-count` to `infinite` which means this animation will run forever. You could set this to 1, 2, or as many iterations as you wish. 

* Set the `animation-direction`  to `alternate`. This property decides if our animation should alternate direction on the completion of one cycle, or reset to the start point and repeat itself. Here it means that the `#ball` will smoothly change back to it's original color instead of "jumping" straight back to red.

### Keyframes

Now it's time to tackle the second half of our animation definition by exploring the `@keyframes` at-rule. 

~~~css
@keyframes change-color {
  from {
    background-color: red;
  }

  to {
    background-color: green;
  }
}
~~~

The `@keyframes` definition references the 'change-color' name we defined earlier. Then, we use the `from` and `to` properties to change the `background-color` of `#ball` from red to green. It's important to know that keyframes use a percentage to indicate the times for an animation to take place and that the `from` and `to` statements are actually aliases for `0%` and `100%` respectively. You can read `from/0%` as meaning 'at zero seconds' and `to/100%` as 'at 3 seconds' according to our `animation-duration`. There is no hard and fast rule on whether or not you should use `from/to` or `0%/100%`. Just pick a style and be consistent with it. 

The `from/to` statement also defines one animation cycle. So if we were to set our `animation-iteration-count` to 2 then the ball would change it's `background-color` from red to green, then from green to red, and then the animation would stop. Be careful not to think of one cycle as a 'round trip'. 

Now it's time to add another keyframe to our animation, introduce the shorthand notation and glimpse a little into the added flexibility of the keyframe notation. Check out the live example below then have a look at the notation.

<p class="codepen" data-height="300" data-theme-id="dark" data-default-tab="css,result" data-slug-hash="zYExOLQ" data-editable="true" data-user="TheOdinProjectExamples" style="height: 300px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples/pen/zYExOLQ">
  keyframes 2 shorthand</a> by TheOdinProject (<a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples">@TheOdinProjectExamples</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://cpwebassets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

~~~css
#ball {
  /* ... other CSS properties ... */
  background-color: red;
  animation: 2s change-color infinite alternate;
}

@keyframes change-color {
  from {
    background-color: red;
  }
  
  50% {
    width: 200px;
    height: 200px;
    background-color: blue;
  }

  to {
    background-color: green;
  }
}
~~~

Here we added another keyframe for when the `animation-duration` is at 50%, or 1.5 seconds. This means as well as the `background-color` changing to an additional value, we have also specified that the ball double in size. Just be aware that additional keyframes are always defined in percentages. Only the `0%/100%` values may use the `from/to` alias. 

Hopefully this gives you a glimpse into the power the `@keyframe` syntax provides to you when it comes to controlling the animation of an element's properties. You can add keyframes whenever you want, control whatever CSS-animatable properties you want, and have the control to add some real creative flair to your website elements.

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content_panel" markdown="1">
1. Code along with the the MDN article for [using CSS animations](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Animations/Using_CSS_animations).
2. Read the [@keyframes reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@keyframes) to gain a deeper understanding of how keyframes are implemented.
</div>

### Practice

Now let's make some cool animations! Go to the [CSS exercises repository](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/css-exercises) and do the exercises in the 'animation' folder in this order:

1. button-hover
2. drop-down
3. pop-up

### Knowledge Check
This section contains questions for you to check your understanding of this lesson. If you’re having trouble answering the questions below on your own, review the material above to find the answer.


- <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation">What are the long and short-hand notations for CSS animations?</a>

- <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Animations/Using_CSS_animations#defining_the_animation_sequence_using_keyframes">How do you add keyframes to an animation?</a>

- <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/difference-between-animation-and-transition-in-css/">When would you use an animation over a transition (and vice versa)?</a>

### Additional Resources

This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something.

Commit message:

Fix inacuracy keyframes lesson
The lesson states that transitions need pseudo-classes, while in fact they can be used in other ways (classes for example)

html_css/v2/main-course/animation/keyframes.md, after:

### Introduction

Now let's explore CSS animations using keyframes. This will expand upon your encounter with CSS transitions and delve into the differences between them.

### Learning Outcomes

* The differences between CSS transitions and CSS animations
* How to configure animation sub-properties
* How to sequence an animation using keyframes

### Animations

Animations let you animate elements from one style configuration to another. Does this sound familiar? You wouldn't be wrong for thinking, "Well, what's the point in learning animations if they are basically the same as transitions?", but animations greatly expand on some capabilities that transitions simply do not have. 

CSS transitions were designed to animate an element from one state to another. They *can* loop but they weren't designed for that, whereas animations were designed with the purpose of explicitly enabling loops.

Transitions need a trigger, for example, the use of pseudo-classes like :hover or :focus, or by adding/removing a class via JS. Animations, on the other hand, do not. Once you have your elements in place and CSS defined, an animation will start running immediately if that's what you told it to do. 

Transitions are also not as flexible as using animations. When you define a transition, imagine you are sending that element on a journey in a straight line from point A to point B. Yes the `transition-timing-function` can add some variation to the timing of this change, but it doesn't compare to the amount of flexibility added by using animations.

Let's see an animation in action to see what we've been talking about. 

<p class="codepen" data-height="300" data-theme-id="dark" data-default-tab="css,result" data-slug-hash="jOGENZz" data-editable="true" data-user="TheOdinProjectExamples" style="height: 300px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples/pen/jOGENZz">
  keyframes 1 longhand</a> by TheOdinProject (<a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples">@TheOdinProjectExamples</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://cpwebassets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

Note how the animation is already running, how it keeps repeating itself and the additional `@keyframes` rule at the bottom. We'll explore that later. For now just know that if you need to change the opacity of an element when it is active, then an animation would be overkill. But if you need to carry out something more complicated, animations provide you with the tools you need. 

Let's look at some animation syntax. The `animation` property is actually shorthand for multiple CSS properties, but we'll stick with introducing you to four of these to get started. The example above was written with this:

~~~css
#ball {
  /* ... other CSS properties ... */
  animation-duration: 2s;
  animation-name: change-color;
  animation-iteration-count: infinite;
  animation-direction: alternate;
}
~~~

Note that this is only the first half of defining an animation with keyframes. This is the configuration stage where we define our animation sub-properties on the `#ball` element. Here we have:

* An `animation-duration` of three seconds. This means that it will take two seconds for the`#ball` element to complete one animation cycle. 

* Defined the `animation-name` to be "change-color" which is essential for the `@keyframe` section coming up next. This is just a custom name that is not a particular CSS value. We could have called it "pineapples" if we so wished, but for our purposes "change-color" suits well. 

* Set the `animation-iteration-count` to `infinite` which means this animation will run forever. You could set this to 1, 2, or as many iterations as you wish. 

* Set the `animation-direction`  to `alternate`. This property decides if our animation should alternate direction on the completion of one cycle, or reset to the start point and repeat itself. Here it means that the `#ball` will smoothly change back to it's original color instead of "jumping" straight back to red.

### Keyframes

Now it's time to tackle the second half of our animation definition by exploring the `@keyframes` at-rule. 

~~~css
@keyframes change-color {
  from {
    background-color: red;
  }

  to {
    background-color: green;
  }
}
~~~

The `@keyframes` definition references the 'change-color' name we defined earlier. Then, we use the `from` and `to` properties to change the `background-color` of `#ball` from red to green. It's important to know that keyframes use a percentage to indicate the times for an animation to take place and that the `from` and `to` statements are actually aliases for `0%` and `100%` respectively. You can read `from/0%` as meaning 'at zero seconds' and `to/100%` as 'at 3 seconds' according to our `animation-duration`. There is no hard and fast rule on whether or not you should use `from/to` or `0%/100%`. Just pick a style and be consistent with it. 

The `from/to` statement also defines one animation cycle. So if we were to set our `animation-iteration-count` to 2 then the ball would change it's `background-color` from red to green, then from green to red, and then the animation would stop. Be careful not to think of one cycle as a 'round trip'. 

Now it's time to add another keyframe to our animation, introduce the shorthand notation and glimpse a little into the added flexibility of the keyframe notation. Check out the live example below then have a look at the notation.

<p class="codepen" data-height="300" data-theme-id="dark" data-default-tab="css,result" data-slug-hash="zYExOLQ" data-editable="true" data-user="TheOdinProjectExamples" style="height: 300px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples/pen/zYExOLQ">
  keyframes 2 shorthand</a> by TheOdinProject (<a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples">@TheOdinProjectExamples</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://cpwebassets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

~~~css
#ball {
  /* ... other CSS properties ... */
  background-color: red;
  animation: 2s change-color infinite alternate;
}

@keyframes change-color {
  from {
    background-color: red;
  }
  
  50% {
    width: 200px;
    height: 200px;
    background-color: blue;
  }

  to {
    background-color: green;
  }
}
~~~

Here we added another keyframe for when the `animation-duration` is at 50%, or 1.5 seconds. This means as well as the `background-color` changing to an additional value, we have also specified that the ball double in size. Just be aware that additional keyframes are always defined in percentages. Only the `0%/100%` values may use the `from/to` alias. 

Hopefully this gives you a glimpse into the power the `@keyframe` syntax provides to you when it comes to controlling the animation of an element's properties. You can add keyframes whenever you want, control whatever CSS-animatable properties you want, and have the control to add some real creative flair to your website elements.

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content_panel" markdown="1">
1. Code along with the the MDN article for [using CSS animations](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Animations/Using_CSS_animations).
2. Read the [@keyframes reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@keyframes) to gain a deeper understanding of how keyframes are implemented.
</div>

### Practice

Now let's make some cool animations! Go to the [CSS exercises repository](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/css-exercises) and do the exercises in the 'animation' folder in this order:

1. button-hover
2. drop-down
3. pop-up

### Knowledge Check
This section contains questions for you to check your understanding of this lesson. If you’re having trouble answering the questions below on your own, review the material above to find the answer.


- <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation">What are the long and short-hand notations for CSS animations?</a>

- <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Animations/Using_CSS_animations#defining_the_animation_sequence_using_keyframes">How do you add keyframes to an animation?</a>

- <a class="knowledge-check-link" href="https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/difference-between-animation-and-transition-in-css/">When would you use an animation over a transition (and vice versa)?</a>

### Additional Resources

This section contains helpful links to other content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something.
