# Web Development 101

Now that you know [what web developers do](/curriculum/becoming_a_web_developer/), it's time to start thinking about how they actually do it.  In this unit, we'll learn about how the Web works and start thinking about the basics of computer and web programming.  You can consider this the "Prep Work" section of this curriculum but it will also serve as a reference for later.  This unit will probably take between 60-90 hrs to complete.

Each of the following sections represents essential baseline knowledge.  Even if you have no intention of becoming a web developer yourself, this material should help you gain a useful understanding of the moving parts involved in creating and serving content on the web.  We will start by familiarizing you with the internet and your own computer.  You will then learn the basics of front end technologies like HTML, CSS, and Javascript before stepping into the back end with a brief foray into Ruby and Ruby on Rails.  We will finish by learning about databases and topics like git workflows and software in the cloud.

By the end of this unit, you should not only understand how the web works, but be able to identify and differentiate each of the technologies that you will be learning in order to build web applications of your own.  You will be able to build a simple webpage, style it, and add minor elements of interactivity while working comfortably from the command line.

We will cover a very broad swathe of knowledge here and that's intentional... it's silly to go diving straight into server-side programming without having a context for what it is and why it's useful (and why you should learn it!).  Each section will contain questions that you'd better be able to answer before moving on.  For the first time, some of the sections below will ask you to do exercises and even a couple of mini projects to help build your understanding.  While most of this material should be fine to tackle on your own, the projects in particular can be useful ones to find a partner and pair up on.  Give it a shot!

Final note: Please [let us know](mailto:curriculum@theodinproject.com) how long these sections take you so we can provide more accurate time estimates to future students. 