foundations/html_css/html-foundations/lists.md, before:

### Introduction

Whether it be IMDB's top 250 movies or the FBI's most wanted, lists are everywhere on the web and you are going to need one eventually in your webpages.

Luckily, with HTML there are a couple of different types of lists at your disposal.

### Learning Outcomes

- How to create an unordered list
- How to create an ordered list

### Unordered Lists

If you want to have a list of items where the order doesn't matter, like a shopping list of items that can be bought in any order, then you can use an unordered list.

Unordered lists are created using the `<ul>` element, and each item within the list is created using the list item element `<li>`.

Each list item in an unordered list begins with a bullet point:

<p class="codepen" data-height="300" data-theme-id="dark" data-default-tab="html,result" data-slug-hash="powjajd" data-user="TheOdinProjectExamples" style="height: 300px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples/pen/powjajd">
  html-unordred-list</a> by TheOdinProject (<a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples">@TheOdinProjectExamples</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://cpwebassets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

### Ordered Lists

If you instead want to create a list of items where the order *does* matter, like step-by-step instructions for a recipe, or your top 10 favorite TV shows, then you can use an ordered list.

Ordered lists are created using the `<ol>` element. Each individual item in them is again created using the list item element `<li>`. However, each list item in an ordered list begins with a number instead:

<p class="codepen" data-height="300" data-theme-id="dark" data-default-tab="html,result" data-slug-hash="yLXYvYp" data-user="TheOdinProjectExamples" style="height: 300px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples/pen/yLXYvYp">
  html-ordered-list</a> by TheOdinProject (<a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples">@TheOdinProjectExamples</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://cpwebassets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">
To get some practice using lists, create a new HTML document and create the following lists:

1. An unordered shopping list of your favorite foods
2. An ordered list of todo's you need to get done today
3. An unordered list of places you'd like to visit someday
4. An ordered list of your all time top 5 favorite video games or movies
</div>

### Additional Resources
This section contains helpful links to other content.  It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something.

- [MDN documentation on the unordered list element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/ul)
- [MDN documentation on the ordered list element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/ol)
- [Shay Howe's HTML lists tutorial](https://learn.shayhowe.com/html-css/creating-lists/)

### Knowledge Check

- What HTML tag is used to create an unordered list?
- What HTML tag is used to create an ordered list?
- What HTML tag is used to create list items within both unordered and ordered lists?

Commit message:

Add knowledge check explanation text - foundations

foundations/html_css/html-foundations/lists.md, after:

### Introduction

Whether it be IMDB's top 250 movies or the FBI's most wanted, lists are everywhere on the web and you are going to need one eventually in your webpages.

Luckily, with HTML there are a couple of different types of lists at your disposal.

### Learning Outcomes

- How to create an unordered list
- How to create an ordered list

### Unordered Lists

If you want to have a list of items where the order doesn't matter, like a shopping list of items that can be bought in any order, then you can use an unordered list.

Unordered lists are created using the `<ul>` element, and each item within the list is created using the list item element `<li>`.

Each list item in an unordered list begins with a bullet point:

<p class="codepen" data-height="300" data-theme-id="dark" data-default-tab="html,result" data-slug-hash="powjajd" data-user="TheOdinProjectExamples" style="height: 300px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples/pen/powjajd">
  html-unordred-list</a> by TheOdinProject (<a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples">@TheOdinProjectExamples</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://cpwebassets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

### Ordered Lists

If you instead want to create a list of items where the order *does* matter, like step-by-step instructions for a recipe, or your top 10 favorite TV shows, then you can use an ordered list.

Ordered lists are created using the `<ol>` element. Each individual item in them is again created using the list item element `<li>`. However, each list item in an ordered list begins with a number instead:

<p class="codepen" data-height="300" data-theme-id="dark" data-default-tab="html,result" data-slug-hash="yLXYvYp" data-user="TheOdinProjectExamples" style="height: 300px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples/pen/yLXYvYp">
  html-ordered-list</a> by TheOdinProject (<a href="https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples">@TheOdinProjectExamples</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://cpwebassets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">
To get some practice using lists, create a new HTML document and create the following lists:

1. An unordered shopping list of your favorite foods
2. An ordered list of todo's you need to get done today
3. An unordered list of places you'd like to visit someday
4. An ordered list of your all time top 5 favorite video games or movies
</div>

### Additional Resources
This section contains helpful links to other content.  It isn't required, so consider it supplemental for if you need to dive deeper into something.

- [MDN documentation on the unordered list element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/ul)
- [MDN documentation on the ordered list element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/ol)
- [Shay Howe's HTML lists tutorial](https://learn.shayhowe.com/html-css/creating-lists/)

### Knowledge Check
This section contains questions for you to check your understanding of this lesson. If you’re having trouble answering the questions below on your own, review the material above to find the answer.

- What HTML tag is used to create an unordered list?
- What HTML tag is used to create an ordered list?
- What HTML tag is used to create list items within both unordered and ordered lists?
